
Matthew 14:13 When Jesus heard about John, He withdrew by boat privately to a solitary place. But the crowds found out about it and followed Him on foot from the towns.
Matthew 14:14 When He stepped ashore and saw a large crowd, He had compassion on them and healed their sick.
Matthew 14:15 When evening came, the disciples came to Him and said, “This is a desolate place, and the hour is already late. Dismiss the crowds so they can go to the villages and buy themselves some food.”
Matthew 14:16 “They do not need to go away,” Jesus replied. “You give them something to eat.”   
Matthew 14:17 “We have here only five loaves of bread and two fish,” they answered.
Matthew 14:18 “Bring them here to Me,” Jesus said.
Matthew 14:19 And He directed the crowds to sit down on the grass. Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, He spoke a blessing. Then He broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the people.
Matthew 14:20 They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over.
Matthew 14:21 About five thousand men were fed, in addition to women and children.

Mark 6:31 And He said to them, “Come with Me privately to a solitary place, and let us rest for a while.” For many people were coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat.        
Mark 6:32 So they went away in a boat by themselves to a solitary place.
Mark 6:33 But many people saw them leaving and recognized them. They ran together on foot from all the towns and arrived before them.
Mark 6:34 When Jesus stepped ashore and saw a large crowd, He had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And He began to teach them many things.
Mark 6:35 By now the hour was already late. So the disciples came to Jesus and said, “This is a desolate place, and the hour is already late.   
Mark 6:36 Dismiss the crowd so they can go to the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.”
Mark 6:37 But Jesus told them, “You give them something to eat.” They asked Him, “Should we go out and spend two hundred denarii to give all of them bread to eat?”
Mark 6:38 “Go and see how many loaves you have,” He told them. And after checking, they said, “Five — and two fish.”
Mark 6:39 Then Jesus directed them to have the people sit in groups on the green grass.
Mark 6:40 So they sat down in groups of hundreds and fifties.
Mark 6:41 Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, Jesus spoke a blessing and broke the loaves. Then He gave them to His disciples to set before the people. And He divided the two fish among them all.
Mark 6:42 They all ate and were satisfied,      
Mark 6:43 and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces of bread and fish.     
Mark 6:44 And there were five thousand men who had eaten the loaves.

Luke 9:12 As the day neared its end, the Twelve came to Jesus and said, “Dismiss the crowd so they can go to the surrounding villages and countryside for lodging and provisions. For we are in a desolate place here.”
Luke 9:13 But Jesus told them, “You give them something to eat.” “We have only five loaves of bread and two fish,” they answered, “unless we go and buy food for all these people.”
Luke 9:14 (There were about five thousand men.) He told His disciples, “Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.”
Luke 9:15 They did so, and everyone was seated. 
Luke 9:16 Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, Jesus spoke a blessing and broke them. Then He gave them to the disciples to set before the people.
Luke 9:17 They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over.

John 6:5 When Jesus looked up and saw a large crowd coming toward Him, He said to Philip, “Where can we buy bread for these people to eat?”
John 6:6 But He was asking this to test him, for He knew what He was about to do.
John 6:7 Philip answered, “Two hundred denarii would not buy enough bread for each of them to have a small piece.”
John 6:8 One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, said to Him,
John 6:9 “Here is a boy with five barley loaves and two small fish. But what difference will these make among so many?”
John 6:10 “Have the people sit down,” Jesus said. Now there was plenty of grass in that place, so the men sat down, about five thousand of them.
John 6:11 Then Jesus took the loaves and the fish, gave thanks, and distributed to those who were seated as much as they wanted.
John 6:12 And when everyone was full, He said to His disciples, “Gather the pieces that are left over, so that nothing will be wasted.”
John 6:13 So they collected them and filled twelve baskets with the pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten.
John 6:14 When the people saw the sign that Jesus had performed, they began to say, “Truly this is the Prophet who is to come into the world.”

Jesus was with many people

There were 5,000 men

And there were many more women and children, not just men

All these thousands of people were hungry

All these thousands of people needed food

There was a boy

The boy had 5 pieces of bread

The also had 2 small fishes

This was the only food that was there for all these people

Jesus commanded all the people to sit down in groups 

Then Jesus took the bread and fish and gave thanks to God

Then Jesus gave the bread and fish to the people

Jesus did a miracle

The bread and fish were multiplied

Everyone ate so much food they were full

And there was so much food that there were 12 baskets of leftovers

Jesus took a little food and fed thousands of people

If we only have a little, God can use our little to do great good

The bread and fish belonged to a boy

God used a child to help many, many people

Even if you are only a child God can still use you a lot

If you have just a little money, give it all to God

God can multiply the good of your money so that much good comes from it

If you just have a little of anything - time, food, clothes - give it all to God

God can multiply what you give to God so that a lot of good happens

When the people were hungry, Jesus fed them

When the people were sick, Jesus healed them

God gives us what we need

We must trust God

We must obey God

The people obeyed Jesus and sat down

The people obeyed Jesus and sat in groups

We must obey all the commands of God

God let us trust you amen

God let us obey all of your commands amen

God let us give everything to you amen

God may your will be done in everything you have given us amen

