Mark 16:16 Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.


Acts 15:9 He made no distinction between us and them, for He cleansed their hearts by faith.

Faith cleanses our hearts

Because our hearts are cleansed, we do good

We do good because we have faith


Acts 15:11 On the contrary, we believe it is through the grace of the Lord Jesus that we are saved, just as they are.”

We are saved by grace, not by keeping the law of Moses


Romans 10:10 For with your heart you believe and are justified, and with your mouth you confess and are saved.

We believe in our hearts and this justifies us

We confess with our mouths and this saves us


1 Corinthians 1:21 For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know Him, God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believe.

God chose the foolishness of preaching to save

God chose the foolishness of listening to preaching with faith to save


1 Corinthians 15:2 By this gospel you are saved, if you hold firmly to the word I preached to you. Otherwise, you have believed in vain.

We will end up being saved if we hold fast to the word that was preached to us


Ephesians 2:8 For it is by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not from yourselves; it is the gift of God,


2 Thessalonians 2:13 But we should always thank God for you, brothers who are loved by the Lord, because God has chosen you from the beginning to be saved by the sanctification of the Spirit and by faith in the truth.

God chooses us to be saved

Called justified glorified romans


1 Timothy 2:15 Women, however, will be saved through childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and holiness, with self-control.

This verse mentions being saved

We cannot remove words from scripture

If we are talking about being saved, it is good to use this verse

It is difficult to understand fully what is meant by childbearing

One possible meaning is: If we continue in good works, then we will be saved and for women that often means bearing children and maybe raising them


Ephesians 2:5 made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in our trespasses. It is by grace you have been saved!

We are saved by grace

otherwise grace would not be grace verse

works counted as wage verse

those who do commandments live by them verse


2 Timothy 1:9 He has saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but by His own purpose and by the grace He granted us in Christ Jesus before time began.

Our works do not begin our salvation

Our works do not start our salvation

jacob esau call election not by works romans verse


not everyon who says lord lord

whoever hears does rock

whoever does not sand

do not be hearers only deceiving also doer

not enough to hear the gospel

must obey commands

faith without works is dead

obedience comes from faith 



Matthew 7:17 Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit.

Matthew 12:33 Make a tree good and its fruit will be good, or make a tree bad and its fruit will be bad; for a tree is known by its fruit.

Luke 6:44 For each tree is known by its own fruit. Indeed, figs are not gathered from thornbushes, nor grapes from brambles.

Matthew 7:18 A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit.
Luke 6:43 No good tree bears bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit.

Matthew 3:10 The axe lies ready at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.
Matthew 7:19 Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.      
Luke 3:9 The axe lies ready at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.”  