Isaiah 55:9
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.

The heavens are higher than the earth

And so the ways and thoughts of God are higher than the thoughts and ways of man

Romans 16:27
to the only wise God be glory forevermore through Jesus Christ! Amen.

God alone is wise

1 John 3:20
for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything.

God knows everything

1 John 4:16
So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.

God is love

God created the world

God loves the world that God created

God created us

God loves us and we are the people God created

Everything God commands us to do is because God loves us

Romans 13:10
Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.

Love does not harm others

Love only does good for others

Love only does what it is best for others

God loves us, so when God commands us, God commands only what is best for us

Therefore it is best for us if we obey the commands of God

Sometimes the commands of God may not make sense to us

We remember that the ways and thoughts of God are above us

We remember that God alone is wise

We remember that God knows all things

When the commands of God do not make sense to us, we must trust what God says instead of what we think or feel

Luke 9:23
And he said to all, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.

Jesus says we must take up our cross daily and follow Jesus

The cross we take up is a cross of suffering

Every day we must take up our cross of suffering

Every day we must follow Jesus and any embrace any suffering God has for us

Hebrews 12:7-8
It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons.

God disciplines all of His children

God allows all of His children to suffer on earth

If God does not disciple someone, then they are not a child of God

Every day we must suffer as the children of God

2 Corinthians 4:17-18
For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.

Our suffering prepares us for an eternal weight of glory

Our suffering leads to glory

Romans 8:16-17
The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him.

We are glorified with Christ provided we suffer with him

Again, our suffering leads to glory

Hebrews 12:11 For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.

Suffering also leads to righteousness

James 1:2-4 Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.

Our trials lead to perseverance, perfection and completion

Our suffering makes us more holy and obedient to God

Our suffering is good for us

Hebrews 11:24-25 By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin.

James 1:15 Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.

Sin is pleasurable for a short time, but later sin leads to eternal death

Righteousness leads to suffering while we are alive, but after Jesus returns, we will have eternal joy and glory

We should choose eternal joy and glory instead of eternal death

Therefore we must choose the temporary suffering of righteousness instead of the temporary pleasure of sin

John 13:34
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. 

Jesus commands us to love like Jesus did

Scripture tells us how Jesus loved us in 1 John 3:16

1 John 3:16
By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.

Jesus loved us by laying down His life for us

Therefore we should lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters in Christ

Philippians 2:3
Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves.

We should esteem others better than ourselves

If we lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters in Christ then we will esteem them better than ourselves

James 1:19
Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger;

God also commands that we should be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to anger

Matthew 10:37-39
Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.

We must love Jesus more than our father

We must love Jesus more than our mother

We must love Jesus more than our children

If someone does not take up their cross and follow Jesus, they are not worthy of Jesus

If someone lives how they want and disobeys God, then God will punish them

If someone submits to God and lives how God wants to, then God will reward them

Luke 14:33
So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.

We must not consider anything we have to belong to us, but rather to belong to God

Our money belongs to God, not to us

Our land belongs to God, not to us

Our house belongs to God, not to us

Our food and water belongs to God, not to us

Our own bodies belong to God, not to us

Therefore, to be a Christian, we must give up everything and follow Jesus

It is difficult to give up everything and follow Jesus

Scripture tells us how we can give up everything and follow Jesus

John 15:5
I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.

We cannot give up everything and follow Jesus by ourselves in our own strength

Only through Jesus and through the power of the Holy Spirit can we obey what God commands

Yes, if we give up everything and follow Jesus, we will suffer, but we remember that suffering is temporary

And joy and glory is eternal

Yes, when we give up everything and follow Jesus, it may not make sense to us, but remember that God knows better than we do

Matthew 5:27-29
“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery.’ But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell.

There are our actions, our words and our heart

If we glance at someone and lust after than, maybe no one sees us glancing and lusting

But God sees every time we lust after someone

We need to be careful with our eyes

Do not look at someone to lust after them

Matthew 26:41
Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.”

Jesus says to watch and pray so that we are not tempted

If you are being tempted to lust, then pray, instead

1 Thessalonians 5:16-18
Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.

Paul says to pray without ceasing

We should always pray

God, help us to always pray without ceasing, amen

1 John 3:14-15
We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.

If we hate someone, then we have committed murder in our hearts

Instead of hating someone in your heart, pray in your heart

Luke 23:34
And Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” And they cast lots to divide his garments.

Jesus prayed for the forgiveness of the people who crucified Him

Acts 7:59-60
And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.” And falling to his knees he cried out with a loud voice, “Lord, do not hold this sin against them.” And when he had said this, he fell asleep.

The deacon and first martyr Stephen asked God to forgive the people who were stoning him to death

2 Timothy 4:16
At my first defense no one came to stand by me, but all deserted me. May it not be charged against them!

Paul asked God to forgive the people who abandoned him

Jesus commands us to love our enemies

Jesus commands us to do good to those who hate us

Jesus commands us to bless those who curse us

Jesus commands us to pray for those who abuse us

Instead of having hatred in our hearts against others, God empowers us to choose to love

Let us give up everything and follow Jesus, in our actions, our words, and even in our hearts

Yes, if we obey the commands of God then we will suffer, but God knows best

And God will reward us with eternal glory when Jesus returns

