Isaiah 55:9
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.

The heavens are higher than the earth

And so the ways and the thoughts of God are higher than the thoughts and the ways of man

God knows better than we do

Ecclesiastes 12:13
The end of the matter; all has been heard. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man.

We must keep the commands of God

Sometimes the commands of God may not make sense to us

We remember that the ways and the thoughts of God are above us

When the commands of God do not make sense to us, we must trust what God says instead of what we think or feel

Scripture tells us what the commands of God are

Luke 9:23
And he said to all, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.

One command from Jesus is that we must take up our cross daily and follow Jesus

The cross we take up is a cross of suffering

Every day we must take up our cross of suffering

Every day we must follow Jesus and embrace any suffering God has for us

2 Corinthians 4:17-18
For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.

Our suffering prepares us for an eternal weight of glory

Our suffering leads to glory

Romans 8:16-17
The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him.

We are glorified with Christ provided we suffer with him

Again, our suffering leads to glory

Hebrews 12:11 For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.

Besides glory, suffering also leads to righteousness

James 1:2-4 Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.

Our trials lead to perseverance, perfection and completion

Our suffering makes us more holy and obedient to God

Our suffering is good for us

Hebrews 11:24-25 By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin.

James 1:15 Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.

Sin is pleasurable for a short time, but later sin leads to eternal death

Righteousness leads to suffering while we are alive, but after Jesus returns, we will have eternal joy and glory

We should choose eternal joy and glory instead of eternal death

Therefore we must choose the temporary suffering of righteousness instead of the temporary pleasure of sin

John 13:34
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. 

Jesus commands us to love like Jesus did

Scripture tells us how Jesus loved us in 1 John 3:16

1 John 3:16
By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.

Jesus loved us by laying down His life for us

Therefore we should lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters in Christ

Matthew 10:37-39
Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.

We must love Jesus more than our father

We must love Jesus more than our mother

We must love Jesus more than our children

If someone does not take up their cross and follow Jesus, they are not worthy of Jesus

If someone lives how they want and disobeys God, then God will punish them

If we submit to God and live how God wants us to, then God will reward us

Luke 14:33
So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.

We must not consider anything we have to belong to us, but rather to belong to God

Our money belongs to God, not to us

Our land belongs to God, not to us

Our house belongs to God, not to us

Our food and water belongs to God, not to us

Our own bodies belong to God, not to us

Therefore, to be a Christian, we must give up everything and follow Jesus

Yes, if we give up everything and follow Jesus, we will suffer, but we remember that suffering is temporary

And we remember that joy and glory are eternal

Yes, when we give up everything and follow Jesus, it may not make sense to us, but remember that God knows better than we do

1 John 3:14-15
We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.

If we hate someone, then we have committed murder in our hearts

Luke 23:34
And Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” And they cast lots to divide his garments.

Jesus prayed for the forgiveness of the people who crucified Him

Acts 7:59-60
And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.” And falling to his knees he cried out with a loud voice, “Lord, do not hold this sin against them.” And when he had said this, he fell asleep.

The deacon and first martyr Stephen asked God to forgive the people who were stoning him to death

2 Timothy 4:16
At my first defense no one came to stand by me, but all deserted me. May it not be charged against them!

Paul asked God to forgive the people who abandoned him

Jesus commands us to love our enemies

Jesus commands us to do good to those who hate us

Jesus commands us to bless those who curse us

Jesus commands us to pray for those who abuse us

Instead of having hatred in our hearts against others, God empowers us to choose to love

Let us give up everything and follow Jesus

Let us choose love and not hatred

Let us choose forgiveness

When we obey the commands of God then we will suffer, but God knows better than we do

And God will reward us with eternal glory when Jesus returns

