Luke 9:46 Then an argument started among the disciples as to which of them would be the greatest.
Luke 9:47 But Jesus, knowing the thoughts of their hearts, had a little child stand beside Him.
Luke 9:48 And He said to them, “Whoever welcomes this little child in My name welcomes Me, and whoever welcomes Me welcomes the One who sent Me. For whoever is the least among all of you, he is the greatest.”

Luke 22:24 A dispute also arose among the disciples as to which of them would be considered the greatest.
Luke 22:25 So Jesus declared, “The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those in authority over them call themselves benefactors.
Luke 22:26 But you shall not be like them. Instead, the greatest among you should be like the youngest, and the one who leads like the one who serves.
Luke 22:27 For who is greater, the one who reclines at the table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines? But I am among you as one who serves.

Mark 9:33 Then they came to Capernaum. While Jesus was in the house, He asked them, “What were you discussing on the way?”
Mark 9:34 But they were silent, for on the way they had been arguing about which of them was the greatest.
Mark 9:35 Sitting down, Jesus called the Twelve and said, “If anyone wants to be first, he must be the last of all and the servant of all.”
Mark 9:36 Then He had a little child stand among them. Taking the child in His arms, He said to them,
Mark 9:37 “Whoever welcomes one of these little children in My name welcomes Me, and whoever welcomes Me welcomes not only Me, but the One who sent Me.”

Matthew 18:1 At that time the disciples came to Jesus and asked, “Who then is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?”
Matthew 18:2 Jesus invited a little child to stand among them.
Matthew 18:3 “Truly I tell you,” He said, “unless you change and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 18:4 Therefore, whoever humbles himself like this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 18:5 And whoever welcomes a little child like this in My name welcomes Me.

Matthew 23:8 But you are not to be called ‘Rabbi,’ for you have one Teacher, and you are all brothers.
Matthew 23:9 And do not call anyone on earth your father, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.
Matthew 23:10 Nor are you to be called instructors, for you have one Instructor, the Christ.
Matthew 23:11 The greatest among you shall be your servant.