Genesis 13:14-16 After Lot had departed, the LORD said to Abram, “Now lift up your eyes from the place where you are, and look to the north and south and east and west, for all the land that you see, I will give to you and your offspring forever.      I will make your offspring like the dust of the earth, so that if one could count the dust of the earth, then your offspring could be counted.

The LORD God promised to make the offspring of Abram like the dust of the earth

The LORD God promised Abram that his offspring would be great in number

Genesis 15:3-6 Abram continued, “Behold, You have given me no offspring, so a servant in my household will be my heir.” Then the word of the LORD came to Abram, saying, “This one will not be your heir, but one who comes from your own body will be your heir.” And the LORD took him outside and said, “Now look to the heavens and count the stars, if you are able.” Then He told him, “So shall your offspring be.” Abram believed the LORD, and it was credited to him as righteousness.

The LORD God promised again to Abram that his offspring would be great in number

The LORD God promised that Abram would have an heir that came from the body of Abraham

Genesis 17:5 No longer will you be called Abram, but your name will be Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations.

The name of Abraham used to be Abram

Genesis 16:1-2 Now Abram’s wife Sarai had borne him no children, but she had an Egyptian maidservant named Hagar. So Sarai said to Abram, “Look now, the LORD has prevented me from bearing children. Please go to my maidservant; perhaps I can build a family by her.” And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.

Sarai was the wife of Abram

Sarai was not able to have children

Hagar was the servant of Sarai

So Sarai said Abram should have a child with Hagar

Genesis 16:15 And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram gave the name Ishmael to the son she had borne.

Abram and Hagar had a son named Ishmael

Genesis 17:15 Then God said to Abraham, “As for Sarai your wife, do not call her Sarai, for her name is to be Sarah.

The name of Sarah used to be Sarai

Genesis 17:17-21 Abraham fell facedown. Then he laughed and said to himself, “Can a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Can Sarah give birth at the age of ninety?” And Abraham said to God, “O that Ishmael might live under Your blessing!” But God replied, “Your wife Sarah will indeed bear you a son, and you are to name him Isaac. I will establish My covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him. As for Ishmael, I have heard you, and I will surely bless him; I will make him fruitful and multiply him greatly. He will become the father of twelve rulers, and I will make him into a great nation. But I will establish My covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this time next year.”

Sarah was the wife of Abraham

God promised Abraham and Sarah to have a son named Isaac

God promised Isaac to Abraham and Sarah when Abraham was 99 and Sarah was 90

Abraham and Sarah had Isaac when they were very old

Ishmael and Isaac were the first two sons of Abraham

The covenant of God was with Isaac

The covenant of God was not with Ishmael

Isaac was the child of promise

Ishmael was not the child of promise

Genesis 18:10-12 Then the LORD said, “I will surely return to you at this time next year, and your wife Sarah will have a son!” Now Sarah was behind him, listening at the entrance to the tent. And Abraham and Sarah were already old and well along in years; Sarah had passed the age of childbearing. So she laughed to herself, saying, “After I am worn out and my master is old, will I now have this pleasure?”

When Sarah was 90 years old, according to the flesh, Sarah was too old to have a child

Genesis 23:1-2 Now Sarah lived to be 127 years old. She died in Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan, and Abraham went out to mourn and to weep for her.

In Genesis 23, Sarah died

Genesis 25:1-2 Now Abraham had taken another wife, named Keturah, and she bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.

In Genesis 25, Abraham got a new wife

The name of the new wife of Abraham was Keturah

Keturah gave Abraham six sons

Genesis 25:6 But while he was still alive, Abraham gave gifts to the sons of his concubines and sent them away from his son Isaac to the land of the east.

Abraham also had concubines

The concubines of Abraham had sons

Abraham had many sons

Exodus 19:16-18 On the third day, when morning came, there was thunder and lightning. A thick cloud was upon the mountain, and a very loud blast of the ram’s horn went out, so that all the people in the camp trembled. Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain. Mount Sinai was completely enveloped in smoke, because the LORD had descended on it in fire. And the smoke rose like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked violently.

In Exodus 19, Moses and the people of God were at Mount Sinai

Exodus 20:1-3 And God spoke all these words: “I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before Me.

Exodus 20:17-18 You shall not covet your neighbor’s house. You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, or his manservant or maidservant, or his ox or donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor.” When all the people witnessed the thunder and lightning, the sounding of the ram’s horn, and the mountain enveloped in smoke, they trembled and stood at a distance.

In Exodus 20, God gave Moses and the people of Israel commandments at the mountain

Galatians 4:22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman.

In Galatians 4, Paul talks about two of the sons that Abraham had

The slave woman is Hagar

The free woman is Sarah

The slave woman had Ishmael

The free woman had Isaac

The two sons Paul talked about were Ishmael and Isaac

Galatians 4:23 His son by the slave woman was born according to the flesh, but his son by the free woman was born through the promise.

God had promised that Abraham would have many, many offspring

God had promised that Abraham would have an heir from the body of Abraham

When Abraham had a child with Hagar, Abraham was trying to fulfill the promise of God through the fleshly efforts of Abraham

Sarah had been unable to have a child her whole life

When Abraham had a child with Sarah, Sarah was 90 years old

According to the flesh, Sarah was too old to have a child when she was 90

And yet God gave Isaac to Abraham and Sarah when they were very old

God fulfilled the promise of God by giving Isaac to Abraham and Sarah

This was a miracle

Ishmael was of the flesh

Isaac was of the promise of God

If God has made a promise to us, and it is not possible for the promise to be fulfilled naturally, then God will fulfill his promise supernaturally

Galatians 4:24 These things serve as illustrations, for the women represent two covenants. One covenant is from Mount Sinai and bears children into slavery: This is Hagar.

All the history of Genesis really happened

Sarah and Hagar are real people

Sarah and Hagar are also metaphors, symbols, allegories or illustrations

Each woman represents a covenant

Hagar represents Mount Sinai

Mount Sinai refers to the mountain where God gave commandments through Moses to the people of Israel 

Hagar was a slave

Hagar bears children who are enslaved

Galatians 4:25 Now Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present-day Jerusalem, because she is in slavery with her children.

Hagar corresponds to the earthly Jerusalem

Hagar represents the covenant of Moses

Galatians 4:26 But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.

Besides an earthly Jerusalem, there is also a Jerusalem above

There is a heavenly Jerusalem

There is an earthly Jerusalem and there is a heavenly Jerusalem

The Jerusaluem above is our spiritual mother

Sarah corresponds to the Jerusalem above

Sarah, who was free, bears children who are free

Sarah represents Mount Zion

Sarah represents the covenant of Jesus

Galatians 4:28 Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.

Isaac was a child of promise

We are also children of promise

We free from sin

We are not slaves to sin

Hagar and Sarah are real people

And Hagar and Sarah symbolize spiritual things like Jerusalems and mountains and covenants

Therefore Scripture can be literal and symbolic at the same time

Making a distinction between these two covenants is very important

Making a distinction between the covenant of Moses and the covenant of Jesus is very important

Hebrews 3:3-6 For Jesus has been counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, just as the builder of a house has greater honor than the house itself. And every house is built by someone, but God is the builder of everything. Now Moses was faithful as a servant in all God’s house, testifying to what would be spoken later. But Christ is faithful as the Son over God’s house. And we are His house, if we hold firmly to our confidence and the hope of which we boast.

For example the book of Hebrews talks a lot about Jesus is better than Moses

We have to make a distinction between Jesus and Moses

We cannot say Jesus and Moses are exactly the same

Acts 15:1-2 Then some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, “Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.” And after engaging these men in sharp debate, Paul and Barnabas were appointed, along with some other believers, to go up to Jerusalem to see the apostles and elders about this question.

Acts 15:5-6 But some believers from the party of the Pharisees stood up and declared, “The Gentiles must be circumcised and required to obey the law of Moses.” So the apostles and elders met to look into this matter.

Acts 15:10 Now then, why do you test God by placing on the necks of the disciples a yoke that neither we nor our fathers have been able to bear?

Acts 15:19-20 It is my judgment, therefore, that we should not cause trouble for the Gentiles who are turning to God. Instead, we should write and tell them to abstain from food polluted by idols, from sexual immorality, from the meat of strangled animals, and from blood.

And Acts 15 says the Gentiles do not need to follow all the law of Moses

The law of a Moses was a yoke that no Jew was able to bear

Therefore the Gentiles should not be troubled with keeping all of it

Therefore Christians keep all the commands of Jesus, but not all the commands of Moses

We have to make a distinction between the commands of Jesus and the commands of Moses

We cannot say that the commands of Jesus and the commands of Moses are exactly the same

1 Corinthians 9:20-21 To the Jews I became like a Jew, to win the Jews. To those under the law I became like one under the law (though I myself am not under the law), to win those under the law. To those without the law I became like one without the law (though I am not outside the law of God but am under the law of Christ), to win those without the law.

And Paul says he is not under the law of Moses, but Paul is under the law of Christ

We have to make a distinction between the law of Christ and the law of Moses

We cannot say that the law of Christ and the law of Moses are exactly the same

God help us to make correct distinctions regarding the word of God amen

God help us to make correct distinctions regarding Jesus and Moses amen