Matthew 28:19 Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit,

Jesus commands us to be baptized  

Romans 6:1 What then shall we say? Shall we continue in sin so that grace may increase?
Romans 6:2 Certainly not! How can we who died to sin live in it any longer?
Romans 6:3 Or aren’t you aware that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into His death?
Romans 6:4 We were therefore buried with Him through baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too may walk in newness of life.
Romans 6:5 For if we have been united with Him like this in His death, we will certainly also be united with Him in His resurrection.
Romans 6:6 We know that our old self was crucified with Him so that the body of sin might be rendered powerless, that we should no longer be slaves to sin.

Before we were baptized we were slaves of sin

Jesus was crucified

Jesus died

When we were baptized into Jesus, we were baptized into the death of Jesus

After Jesus died, Jesus was buried

When we were baptized, we were buried with Jesus

We have died to sin

We cannot live in sin any longer

Our body was a body of sin

We were slaves of sin

Romans 6:7 For anyone who has died has been freed from sin.

When we died to sin, God set us free from sin

We are no longer slaves of sin

Our old self was crucified with Jesus

After Jesus was buried, Jesus was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father

Romans 6:8 Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him.
Romans 6:9 For we know that since Christ was raised from the dead, He cannot die again; death no longer has dominion over Him.

After Jesus rose to life, Jesus can never die again

Romans 6:10 The death He died, He died to sin once for all; but the life He lives, He lives to God.
Romans 6:11 So you too must count yourselves dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus.     

We must consider ourselves dead to sin

We must consider ourselves alive to God in Jesus

Jesus died to sin once and for all

Now Jesus lives

And Jesus lives to God

Death does not have any power over Jesus

If we died with Jesus, then we will live with Jesus

As Jesus rose to life, so we walk a new life

We walk in righteousness

We do no longer walk in sin

God makes a way to escape temptation

God gives us the choice to obey Him

We can choose to obey God

We must not let sin reigh in this earthly mortal body

We must not obey the desires of sin

Romans 6:12 Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its desires.    
Romans 6:13 Do not present the parts of your body to sin as instruments of wickedness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life; and present the parts of your body to Him as instruments of righteousness.

We must not present our body parts to sin

We must not allow our body parts to be instruments of wickedness

Instead we must present our bodies to God

We have been brought from death to life

We must present our body parts to God as instruments of righteousness

Our hands are hands of righteousness

Our feet are feet of righteousness

Our mouths are mouths of righteousness

Each of our body parts is an instrument of righteousness

Romans 6:14 For sin shall not be your master, because you are not under law, but under grace.   

Sin is not our master

God is our master

We are not under pure law

We are under the grace of God

Mercy triumphs over judgment

Romans 6:15 What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law, but under grace? Certainly not!

Even though God is merciful, we should not sin

Even though we are under grace, we should not sin

Even though we are not under pure law, we should not sin

Romans 6:16 Do you not know that when you offer yourselves as obedient slaves, you are slaves to the one you obey, whether you are slaves to sin leading to death, or to obedience leading to righteousness?

We are a slave of whoever we obey

Every day we choose who to obey

Every day we choose who to present our bodies to in obedience

Every day we choose to be slaves of sin or slaves of God

Let us choose to be slaves of God

And if we are a slave of man, then we are free in the Lord

If we obey God, this leads to righteousness

Slavery to sin leads to death

Romans 6:17 But thanks be to God that, though you once were slaves to sin, you wholeheartedly obeyed the form of teaching to which you were committed.

We were slaves of sin

Now let us be slaves of God

Let us obey the teaching of Jesus

Romans 6:18 You have been set free from sin and have become slaves to righteousness.

We have been set free from sin

We are slaves of righteousness

Romans 6:19 I am speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. Just as you used to offer the parts of your body in slavery to impurity and to escalating wickedness, so now offer them in slavery to righteousness leading to holiness.

We used to offer our body parts to be enslaved to impurity

Now let us offer our body parts to be enslaved to righteousness

Righteousness leads to holiness

Romans 6:20 For when you were slaves to sin, you were free of obligation to righteousness.      
Romans 6:21 What fruit did you reap at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? The outcome of those things is death.
Romans 6:22 But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves to God, the fruit you reap leads to holiness, and the outcome is eternal life.

When we are enslaved to righteousness we reap fruit that leads to holiness

When we are enslaved to righteousness we receive eternal life

Romans 6:23 For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

The payment of sin is death

The gift of God is eternal life

Jesus is Lord

May we obey Jesus our Lord

