Matthew 26:26 While they were eating, Jesus took bread, spoke a blessing and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, saying, “Take and eat; this is My body.”
Matthew 26:27 Then He took the cup, gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, “Drink from it, all of you.
Matthew 26:28 This is My blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.
Matthew 26:29 I tell you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it anew with you in My Father’s kingdom.”

Mark 14:22 While they were eating, Jesus took bread, spoke a blessing and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, saying, “Take it; this is My body.”
Mark 14:23 Then He took the cup, gave thanks, and gave it to them, and they all drank from it.
Mark 14:24 He said to them, “This is My blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.
Mark 14:25 Truly I tell you, I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God.”

Luke 22:15 And He said to them, “I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before My suffering.
Luke 22:16 For I tell you that I will not eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.”
Luke 22:17 After taking the cup, He gave thanks and said, “Take this and divide it among yourselves.
Luke 22:18 For I tell you that I will not drink of the fruit of the vine from now on until the kingdom of God comes.”
Luke 22:19 And He took the bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, “This is My body, given for you; do this in remembrance of Me.”
Luke 22:20 In the same way, after supper He took the cup, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood, which is poured out for you.

Luke 24:30 While He was reclining at the table with them, He took bread, spoke a blessing and broke it, and gave it to them.        
Luke 24:31 Then their eyes were opened and they recognized Jesus — and He disappeared from their sight.

John 6:27 Do not work for food that perishes, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. For on Him God the Father has placed His seal of approval.”

John 6:32 Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I tell you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but it is My Father who gives you the true bread from heaven.     
John 6:33 For the bread of God is He who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.”
John 6:34 “Sir,” they said, “give us this bread at all times.”
John 6:35 Jesus answered, “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to Me will never hunger, and whoever believes in Me will never thirst.

John 6:48 I am the bread of life.
John 6:49 Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, yet they died.
John 6:50 This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that anyone may eat of it and not die.
John 6:51 I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And this bread, which I will give for the life of the world, is My flesh.”
John 6:52 At this, the Jews began to argue among themselves, “How can this man give us His flesh to eat?”
John 6:53 So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I tell you, unless you eat the flesh and drink the blood of the Son of Man, you have no life in you.
John 6:54 Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
John 6:55 For My flesh is real food, and My blood is real drink.
John 6:56 Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood remains in Me, and I in him.        
John 6:57 Just as the living Father sent Me and I live because of the Father, so also the one who feeds on Me will live because of Me.
John 6:58 This is the bread that came down from heaven. Unlike your fathers, who ate the manna and died, the one who eats this bread will live forever.”

Acts 2:42 - And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.

Acts 20:7 On the first day of the week we came together to break bread. Since Paul was ready to leave the next day, he talked to them and kept on speaking until midnight.

1 Corinthians 10:16 Is not the cup of blessing that we bless a participation in the blood of Christ? And is not the bread that we break a participation in the body of Christ?  
1 Corinthians 10:17 Because there is one loaf, we who are many are one body; for we all partake of the one loaf.

1 Corinthians 11:20 Now then, when you come together, it is not the Lord’s Supper you eat.
1 Corinthians 11:21 For as you eat, each of you goes ahead without sharing his meal. While one remains hungry, another gets drunk.  
1 Corinthians 11:22 Don’t you have your own homes in which to eat and drink? Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What can I say to you? Shall I praise you for this? No, I will not!  
1 Corinthians 11:23 For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you: The Lord Jesus, on the night He was betrayed, took bread,
1 Corinthians 11:24 and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, “This is My body, which is for you; do this in remembrance of Me.”
1 Corinthians 11:25 In the same way, after supper He took the cup, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood; do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.” 
1 Corinthians 11:26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until He comes.
1 Corinthians 11:27 Therefore, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord.     
1 Corinthians 11:28 Each one must examine himself before he eats of the bread and drinks of the cup.
1 Corinthians 11:29 For anyone who eats and drinks without recognizing the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.
1 Corinthians 11:30 That is why many among you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians 11:31 Now if we judged ourselves properly, we would not come under judgment.
1 Corinthians 11:32 But when we are judged by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be condemned with the world.   
1 Corinthians 11:33 So, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.
1 Corinthians 11:34 If anyone is hungry, he should eat at home, so that when you come together it will not result in judgment. And when I come, I will give instructions about the remaining matters.

Heavenly Father,

In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit,

Have mercy on me, a sinner

Thank You

Help

Bless

Amen