1 Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: “It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.” 

In the time of the apostles, leaders wrote letters to churches, and churches wrote letters to thier leaders

The church in Corthinthians had written to their leader or leaders

In 1 Corthinthians 1:1 Paul and Sostheses both wrote 1 Corthinthians:

Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes

Therefore the church in Corthinthians wrote a letter to Paul and/or Sostheses

The letter that the church in Corthinthians wrote had questions

In 1 Corthinthians Paul is answering their questions in their letter

The first thing Paul and Sostheses say regarding their questions is that a man shold not have sexual relations with a woman

Obviously a man and a woman who are married to each other should have sexual relations with each other

However if a man and a woman are not married, then Paul and Sosthenes are saying they should not have sexual relations

Therefore sex is only for marriage

And if someone is not married they must remain abstinent or get married

2 But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. 

Paul and Sostheses say that humans who are not married are tempted to have sex

And because they are not married, then that sex would be sexual immorality

Instead of committing sexual immorality, Paul and Sostheses say someone should get married

Therefore one purpose of marriage is so that we will not be tempted to sexual immorality because we can have sex within our marriage

Instead of being tempted to sexual immorality, if we are married, we should have sex with our spouse

Paul and Sostheses say that a man should marry a woman and a woman should marry a man

Paul and Sostheses are saying that marriage is only between a man and a woman, not a woman and woman and not a man and a man

3 The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband. 

This means a husband has a duty or debt to have sex with his husband

This means a wife has a duty or debt to have sex with her husband

Generally, if a husband or wife refuses to do their duty or fulfill their debt, they are sinning


4 For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. 

1 Corithians 7 verses 3 and 5 are about sex. Therefore the context for verse 4 is about sex. Therefore when Paul and Sostheses say the husband has authority over the body of the wife, they mean as it pertains to sex. And likewise, the wife has authority over the body of her husband as it pertains to sex. A husband may command the body of his wife with regards to sex. And likewise a wife may command the body of his wife with regards to sex. If a husband commands his wife to fulfill her sexual duty, then the wife must obey. If a wife commands her husband to fulfill his sexual duty, then the husband must obey.

5 Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. 

Paul and Sostheses command husbands and wives to not deprive or deny each other sex. However, if a husband and wife do not have sex, Paul and Sostheses give some rules: First, a husband and wife must both agree to not have sex. There is a duty to have sex. Not having sex requires both husband to consent. Second, when a husband and wife agree to not have sex, they must do so only temporarily and not permanently. Third, if husband and wife agree to not have sex, it should so that they can devote themselves to prayer. Fourth, a husband and wife need to continue having sex afterward. Remember: sexual immorality is bad and those who are tempted should get married. Therefore, those who are married should continue to have sex so that they are not tempted to sexual immorality or adultery.

In the Old Testament a woman named Rahab deceived or lied so that some Jews would not be killed. In the New Testament Rahab is praised for her faith and her works. Lying is sin, but lying to save a life is good. The commands of God to not kill and not lie must be interpreted correctly for each situation.

If someone is physically exhausted and unable to do something sexually, they are not sinning by not having sex. Likewise if someone is too sick to have sex, they are not sinning. There are some valid reasons to not have sex that are not explicitly listed in Scripture and I have only listed two. However, excluding exceptions, it is very severe for a husband or wife to refuse sex. Refusal of sex can lead to temptation to sexual immorality or temptation of adultery.

6 Now as a concession, not a command, I say this. 

Paul is not commanding marriage. Marriage is not a requirement for Christians in general. Paul is saying: if someone is tempted to sexual sin, they should get married. If someone is not tempted to sexual sin, then Paul is not saying they should get married.

7 I wish that all were as I myself am. But each has his own gift from God, one of one kind and one of another. 

Paul is single. Paul desires that every Christian is single and never marries. Singleness is better than marriage.

Matthew 19
8 He said to them, “Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. 9 And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery.” 10 The disciples said to him, “If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry.” 11 But he said to them, “Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given. 12 For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it.”

Jesus said not everyone can stay single. However those who are able to stay single and not marry should.

Everyone has a different gift from God. Some people receive the gift of singleness. And some receive their spouse as a gift from God. 

8 To the unmarried and the widows I say that it is good for them to remain single, as I am. 

If someone becomes a widow, they should stay single if they can. If someone has never married, they should remain single if they can.

9 But if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion. 

If someone cannot exercise self-control when it comes to sexual sin, then they should marry. It is better to be married and having sex than single and strongly desiring sex.

Do not try to force singleness. We must accept the gifts and callings and callings God personally gives.

Romans 11:29
For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.

10 To the married I give this charge (not I, but the Lord): the wife should not separate from her husband 11 (but if she does, she should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband), and the husband should not divorce his wife.

Husbands should not divorce their wives. Jesus says divorce is okay if there was sexual immorality.

A wife should not leave her husband, generally. But if she has to leave, then should not marry someone else. And of course, if it is possible, she should be reconciled to her husband. 

Paul talks about wives staying unmarried if they leave, but Paul does not say this for husbands. Scripture commands wives to submit to their husbands as the church submits to Jesus. Husbands have authority over their wives. However some husbands have abused their authority to harm their wives instead of loving and cherishing their wives. And in some cases a wife leaves her husband. But she is not to marry another man if her husband is alive. 

12 To the rest I say (I, not the Lord) that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. 13 If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him. 

If a Christian is married to someone who is not a Christian, and the one who is not a Christian wants to remain married, then the Christian should remain married.

14 For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy. 

If one spouse is Christian, then God makes the other spouse holy. If God did not do this, then the children of a Christian would be unclean. However the children are holy.

15 But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace. 

Normally Christians have an obligation and duty to remain married and preserve their marriage.

However, if a Christian is married to someone who is not a Christian and the one who is not a Christian wants to not be married, then the Christian does not have a duty to remain married.

16 For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife? 

One reason God wants Christians to remain married to their spouses who are not Christians is so that hopefully the spouse who is not a Christian will become a Christian.

17 Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him, and to which God has called him. This is my rule in all the churches. 

God assigns each of us to be single or married. We must live out the assignment God gives us. We must live out the individual callings God has for us.

18 Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision. 

If we are Jews, we should not seek to be someone who is not a Jew.

If we are not a Jew, we should not seek to be a Jew.

19 For neither circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. 

God commanded Abraham to circumcise. Moses also commanded circumsion. However we do not follow all the commandments of Moses. We follow the commandments God has for Christians: observing all that Jesus has commanded. It does not matter if we are circumcized or not. What matters is that we obey Jesus.

20 Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called. 21 Were you a bondservant when called? Do not be concerned about it. (But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity.) 22 For he who was called in the Lord as a bondservant is a freedman of the Lord. Likewise he who was free when called is a bondservant of Christ. 23 You were bought with a price; do not become bondservants of men. 24 So, brothers, in whatever condition each was called, there let him remain with God. 

If someone becomes a Christian while they are a slave, they should not worry that they are a slave. However a Christian who is a slave should become free if possible. Christians who are slaves of men are free from their sin and free in Jesus. And Christians who are free from the slavery of men are slaves of Jesus and must use their freedom to serve and obey Jesus.

We are free from sin. We are free from death. We are free from the slavery we had when we were not Christians. God purchased our freedom. However that freedom was purchased by the blood of Jesus. The blood of Jesus is very valuable and expensive. God purchased our freedom with a great cost. Therefore we belong to God. And God says do not become the slave of a human. Instead be a slave of God.

Whether we are slave or free, Jew or not a Jew, we should remain that way when we become Christians.

25 Now concerning the betrothed, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who by the Lord's mercy is trustworthy. 26 I think that in view of the present distress it is good for a person to remain as he is. 

Remember, singleness is better than marriage. So if someone is betrothed and not married, yet, then they should stay that way, if possible. However if they burn with passion, the betrothed should marry.

27 Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife. 

We remain as we are: if we are married, we pursue our marriage. We do not divorce. If we are single, then we do not pursue marriage if possible.

28 But if you do marry, you have not sinned, and if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned. Yet those who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that. 

Even though singleness is better than marriage, marriage is not at all sin. It is not a sin to get married.

One reason Paul wants people to stay single if possible is because married people will experience worldly troubles. Paul wants to keep people from experiencing wordly troubles.

29 This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though they had none, 30 and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as though they had no goods, 31 and those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing away. 

We should live for heavenly things, not earthly things. Married people should love God more than their spouse. Those who mourn over something earthly should be focused on the eternal. Those who rejoice over something earthly should be focused on the eternal. Those who have belongings or money should be focused on how to use their belongings and money for treasure in heaven and not earthly things. Those who do business or have dealings with things of the world like government or business or organizations should do all they do for the heavenly not the earthly. 

This visible world is temporary and passing away. What is unseen is eternal.

32 I want you to be free from anxieties. The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord. 33 But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife, 34 and his interests are divided. And the unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit. But the married woman is anxious about worldly things, how to please her husband. 

If a Christian is single, they live to please God. If a Christian is married, they have worldly concerns and want to please their spouse. They want to please God and their spouse .

35 I say this for your own benefit, not to lay any restraint upon you, but to promote good order and to secure your undivided devotion to the Lord. 

If someone is married it is harder for them be completely and entirely devoted to serving God. Paul wants single Christians to remain single if possible: so it is easier for them to be completely and entirely devoted to serving God.

36 If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly toward his betrothed, if his passions are strong, and it has to be, let him do as he wishes: let them marry—it is no sin. 

Those who strongly want to get married should get married. They have not sinned.

37 But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity but having his desire under control, and has determined this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well. 

Paul says to be single, someone must be: firmly established in their heart. They should not be single out of necessity. They should have their desire under control. They should also determine to be remain single and not marry someone in their heart. This person will do well.

38 So then he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains from marriage will do even better. 

Those who marry do well. Those who remain single do better.

39 A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. 

If a man and woman are married, they remain married while both are alive. However if the husband dies, then the wife is free from the law of her marriage. She is free to be married to any man in the Lord.

40 Yet in my judgment she is happier if she remains as she is. And I think that I too have the Spirit of God.

Paul believes that widows will be happier if they stay single.