Matthew 5:10-12 Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of Me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven; for in the same way they persecuted the prophets before you.

If we are persecuted because of righteousness then we are blessed

If we are persecuted because of righteousness then the kingdom of heaven is ours

If people insult us because of Jesus, then we are blessed

If people persecute us because of Jesus, then we are blessed

If people tell lies about us because of Jesus, then we are blessed

If any of these things happen to us, then God will give us a lot of treasure in heaven

If any of these things happen to us, then we should rejoice!

If any of these things happen to us, then we should be glad!

People insulted, persecuted and lied about the prophets that came before Jesus

So people will do the same to us

2 Timothy 3:12-13 Indeed, all who desire to live godly lives in Christ Jesus will be persecuted, while evil men and imposters go from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.

If we desire to live a godly life, then other people will persecute us

We remember that if we are persecuted, then we are blessed

Luke 12:4 I tell you, My friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body and after that can do no more.

We are not afraid of people

We are not afraid of people insulting us

We are not afraid of people telling lies about us

We are not afraid of people persecuting us

We are not afraid of people hurting us

People can only kill our bodies

After we are dead, people cannot do anything else to us

People cannot destroy our soul

We are not afraid of dying for Jesus

We are not afraid of what people can do to us

Luke 21:12 But before all this, they will seize you and persecute you. On account of My name they will deliver you to the synagogues and prisons, and they will bring you before kings and governors.

Many Christians will be seized in chains or inprisoned

We are not afraid of chains

We are not afraid of prison

Many Christians will be persecuted

Jesus said many Christians will be persecuted by religious leaders

Christians will be brought before kings and governors

Luke 21:13 This will be your opportunity to serve as witnesses.

If we are arrested or put in prison because of Jesus, then we can be a witness to those we speak to

Luke 21:14 So make up your mind not to worry beforehand how to defend yourselves.

If we are brought before a leader, then we should not plan out what to say before in advance

Luke 21:15 For I will give you speech and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict.

If we are brought before a leader, then Jesus will give us the words to say

If we are brought before a leader, then Jesus will give us so much wisdom that no one will be able to argue against the words that Jesus gives us

Luke 21:16 You will be betrayed even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and some of you will be put to death.

If we follow Jesus, then our family might betray us

If we follow Jesus, then our friends might betray us

We are not afraid of people betraying us

If we follow Jesus, then we might die for Jesus

We are not afraid of dying

Luke 21:17 And you will be hated by everyone because of My name.

If we follow Jesus, many people will hate us

We are not afraid of people hating us

Luke 21:18 Yet not even a hair of your head will perish.

If we follow Jesus, then God will protect our bodies and in the resurrection our bodies will be perfect

We will not lose even one hair of our head

Luke 21:19 By your patient endurance you will gain your souls.  

If we follow Jesus, after we patiently endure our suffering, then we will gain our souls

Some of the verses from Mark chapter 16 are missing from early copies of Greek New Testaments

Mark 16:15 And He said to them, “Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.

We must go into all the world and preach the gospel

We must preach the gospel to every creature

If we preach the gospel, then we are not afraid of what will happen to us

If we preach the gospel, then we are not afraid of what people can do to us

If we preach the gospel, then we are not afraid of people persecuting us

If we preach the gospel, and if people persecute us, then our treasure in heaven is great

If we preach the gospel, and if people persecute us, then we are blessed

Acts 5:40-42 At this, they yielded to Gamaliel. They called the apostles in and had them flogged. Then they ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and released them. The apostles left the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they had been counted worthy of suffering disgrace for the Name. Every day, in the temple courts and from house to house, they did not stop teaching and proclaiming the good news that Jesus is the Christ.

The Jewish leaders commanded the apostles to not preach Jesus

The Jewish leaders beat and physically harmed the apostles

The apostles rejoiced that they suffered for Jesus

God if we suffer for Jesus, let us rejoice amen

Then the apostles disobeyed the Jews and kept preaching Jesus

We obey what God says

If people command against God, then we disobey people

If we preach the gospel, and if people persecute us, then we rejoice!

If we preach the gospel, and if people persecute us, then we are glad!

Mark 16:16 Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.

God let people believe the gospel amen

God let people be baptized amen

God let people be saved amen

Mark 16:17 And these signs will accompany those who believe: In My name they will drive out demons; they will speak in new tongues;

God in the name of Jesus, let all demons be driven out amen

God in the name of Jesus, may the people speak in new tongues amen

Mark 16:18 they will pick up snakes with their hands, and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not harm them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will be made well.”

God in the name of Jesus, protect the people from danger and poison amen

God in the name of Jesus, let all the people who are sick be healed amen

God in the name of Jesus, let all the people be blessed amen


