Hebrews 9:27-28 Just as man is appointed to die once, and after that to face judgment, so also Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many; and He will appear a second time, not to bear sin, but to bring salvation to those who eagerly await Him.

There is a judgment after death

2 Corinthians 5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive his due for the things done in the body, whether good or bad.

Everyone, including Paul, and the other apostles, must come before the judgment seat of Christ

Romans 2:6-8 God “will repay each one according to his deeds.” To those who by perseverance in doing good seek glory, honor, and immortality, He will give eternal life. But for those who are self-seeking and who reject the truth and follow wickedness, there will be wrath and anger.

God repays us according to our deeds, according to our works

Matthew 7:21 Not everyone who says to Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of My Father in heaven.

It is not enough to call Jesus "Lord"

We must do the will of the Father of Jesus in heaven

Matthew 7:17 Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit.

Good trees bear good fruit

Luke 6:43 No good tree bears bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit.

Good trees do not produce bad fruit

Matthew 3:10 The axe lies ready at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.

We are trees

If we do not produce good fruit, then we will be cut down and thrown into the fire

God, please cause us to produce good fruit of the Holy Spirit amen

James 3:1 Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly.

Those who teach the word of God are judged more strictly than those who do not teach the word of God

Shepherds are judged more strictly than the people under them who are not shepherds

Matthew 12:36 But I tell you that men will give an account on the day of judgment for every careless word they have spoken.

When God judges us we will have to give an account for every careless word we have spoken

Preachers will have to give account for any careless words they spoke about the word of God

Shepherds will have to give account for any careless words they spoke to their flock

Before you teach the word of God to someone, remember your judgment day

Are you speaking the truth in love through the Holy Spirit? Or are you speaking from your flesh?

It is better to be silent than to say something wrong

James 3:2 We all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to control his whole body.

It is good to never be wrong in what we say

If we are never wrong in what we say, we are a perfet man and we are able to exercise self-control over our entire body and not just over our tongue







