
1 Corinthians 14:26 What then shall we say, brothers? When you come together, everyone has a psalm or a teaching, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. All of these must be done to build up the church.

When Christians assemble and meet together for church, some people have a psalm from God

When Christians assemble and meet together for church, some people have a teaching from God

When Christians assemble and meet together for church, some people have a revelation from God

When Christians assemble and meet together for church, some people have something to say from God, speaking in tongues 

When Christians assemble and meet together for church, some people have an intepretation for what is said in tongues

Different people have different gifts to contribute to the church worship service

All these gifts must build up the church and not tear down the church

The person or the people leading a church service should allow other people to lead with a psalm, a teaching, a revelation, a tongue or an intepretation

When Christians assemble and meet together for church, God can speak through many people to build up the church, not just one person

1 Corinthians 14:27 If anyone speaks in a tongue, two, or at most three, should speak in turn, and someone must interpret.

When people speak in tongues, up to 3 people may speak at a time, taking turns

1 Corinthians 14:28 But if there is no interpreter, he should remain silent in the church and speak only to himself and God.

However, if someone speaks in tongues, then there must be someone to interpret what is said

God wants the church to be built up

If someone speaks in tongues but there is no interpretation, then the church is not built up

If someone speaks in tongues but there is no interpretation, then the spirit is built up but the mind is not built up

God wants the spirit and the mind both to be built up

1 Corinthians 14:29 Two or three prophets should speak, and the others should weigh carefully what is said.

Up to 3 people may prophesy to build up the church, taking turns

Other prophets should judge what is said by the prophets speaking

1 Corinthians 14:30 And if a revelation comes to someone who is seated, the first speaker should stop.

It is not good for someone to be allowed to keep on speaking on matter what

If someone else wants to speak a revelation from God, the first person should stop speaking and allow the other person to speak

1 Corinthians 14:31 For you can all prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed and encouraged.

When other people are allowed to speak, then people can take turns talking, one person at a time

When Christians assemble and meet together for church, then if a revelation is given to someone, then they should be allowed to speak

It is not good for one person to speak and everyone else forced to remain silent

1 Corinthians 14:32 The spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.

A prophet must command his spirit

This means a prophet must be able to be silent to allow someone else to speak

God gives prophets self-control

God gives prophets the self-control to be slow to speak and quick to listen

1 Corinthians 14:33 For God is not a God of disorder, but of peace as in all the churches of the saints.

If multiple people talk at the same time, then the people do not know who to listen to 

If multiple people talk at the same time, then there would be disorder

If multiple people talk at the same time, then there would not be peace

If people take turns talking one person at a time, then the people have one person at a time a to listen to

If people take turns talking one person at a time, then this is orderly

If people take turns talking one person at a time, then this is peaceful

Genesis 3:20 And Adam named his wife Eve, because she would be the mother of all the living.

Eve is the mother of all living

1 Timothy 2:11-14 A woman must learn in quietness and full submissiveness. I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; she is to remain quiet. For Adam was formed first, and then Eve. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman who was deceived and fell into transgression.

Paul says a woman must not teach or have authority over a man

Titus 2:3-5 Older women, likewise, are to be reverent in their behavior, not slanderers or addicted to much wine, but teachers of good. In this way they can train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, managers of their households, kind, and submissive to their own husbands, so that the word of God will not be discredited.

Older women should train younger women

Therefore women should teach other women

But women should not teach adult men

1 Corinthians 14:34 Women are to be silent in the churches. They are not permitted to speak, but must be in submission, as the law says.

If men and women are gathered together, then only men should be speaking to the men

1 Corinthians 14:35 If they wish to inquire about something, they are to ask their own husbands at home; for it is dishonorable for a woman to speak in the church.

A woman should not ask a question at church

A woman should ask a question to their husbands at home

1 Corinthians 14:36 Did the word of God originate with you? Or are you the only ones it has reached?

The Corinthians allowed women to speak in church, when they should not

Paul says that the Corinthians are not where the word of God came from

Paul says that the Corinthians are not where the word of God has come to because there are many churches

1 Corinthians 14:37 If anyone considers himself a prophet or spiritual person, let him acknowledge that what I am writing you is the Lord’s command.

Paul says these are not merely the words of Paul

Paul says all of this is the command of the Lord

The Lord has commanded this about women

1 Corinthians 14:38 But if anyone ignores this, he himself will be ignored.

Paul says if someone ignores this, then they are ignored

1 Corinthians 14:39 So, my brothers, be eager to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues. 

We should be eager to prophesy

We should not forbid speaking in tongues

1 Corinthians 14:40 But everything must be done in a proper and orderly manner.

However all these spiritual gifts must be exercised correctly and orderly according to the word of God