1 Peter 5:1-3 As a fellow elder, a witness of Christ’s sufferings, and a partaker of the glory to be revealed, I appeal to the elders among you: Be shepherds of God’s flock that is among you, watching over them not out of compulsion, but because it is God’s will; not out of greed, but out of eagerness; not lording it over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock.

God entrusts a flock to a shepherd

Someone who lords over someone else forces them to obey through power, authority and commanding

God does not want shepherds to lead this way

Instead, this means that shepherds lead by example

Shepherds obey God

The flock watches the shepherd

The flock sees the shepherd obeying God

The flock imitates the shepherd, who obeys God

Paul says:

1 Corinthians 11:1 You are to imitate me, just as I imitate Christ.

Then as the shepherd obeys God then as the flock imitates the shepherd the flock obeys God

A shepherd not feel forced themselves to be a shepherd; they should not feel compulsed

Instead a shepherd should shepherd because of their desire to obey the will of God

A shepherd should not be a shepherd to make money

A shepherd should be eager to be a shepherd

Philemon 1:8-10 So although in Christ I am bold enough to order you to do what is proper, I prefer to appeal on the basis of love. For I, Paul, am now aged, and a prisoner of Christ Jesus as well. I appeal to you for my child Onesimus, whose father I became while I was in chains.

Philemon 1:13-17 I would have liked to keep him with me, so that on your behalf he could minister to me in my chains for the gospel. But I did not want to do anything without your consent, so that your goodness will not be out of compulsion, but by your own free will. For perhaps this is why he was separated from you for a while, so that you might have him back for good no longer as a slave, but better than a slave, as a beloved brother. He is especially beloved to me, but even more so to you, both in person and in the Lord. So if you consider me a partner, receive him as you would receive me.

Philemon 1:21 Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I ask.

Onesimus was a slave of Philemon

Onesimus ran away

Paul was in prison

Onesimus served Paul

Paul wanted to keep Onesimus

But then Philemon was not consenting to his slave Onesimus serving Paul

Then the good Philemon was doing through his slave Onesimus serving Paul would be out of compulsion and forced

Paul wanted the good Philemon to do to be out of the free will of Philemon

Paul was not lording over Philemon

Paul was not forcing Philemon

Paul gave Philemon freedom

Paul was bold enough that Paul could command Philemon in the name of Jesus to receive Onesimus back

However, instead of commanding using his apostolic authority, Paul appealed to Philemon to receive Onesimus back

Paul is an example of a shepherd who is not lording over his flock

Galatians 2:7-8 On the contrary, they saw that I had been entrusted to preach the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been to the circumcised. For the One who was at work in Peter’s apostleship to the circumcised was also at work in my apostleship to the Gentiles.
