The Protestant Old Testament and the Jewish Bible have the same words

However the Jewish Bible orders their books into different groups and in a different older

The Protestant Scriptures have New Testament and Old Testament

However the Jewish Bible has three parts

The Jews divide the Old Testament into three parts: Law, Prophets and Writings

The Bible uses Law and Prophets to reference the Old Testament

Luke 24:44 Jesus said to them, “These are the words I spoke to you while I was still with you: Everything must be fulfilled that is written about Me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms.”

Jesus spoke of the Law, the Prophets and the Psalms

The Psalms are part of the Writings in the Jewish Bible

Matthew 22:37 Jesus declared, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.’
Matthew 22:38 This is the first and greatest commandment.   
Matthew 22:39 And the second is like it: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’
Matthew 22:40 All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two commandments.”

When Jesus talks about the Law and Prophets here, Jesus means the Old Testament

This is why the translators write "Law" and "Prophets" in uppercase and not "law" and "prophets" in lowercase

Therefore when Jesus talks about loving God and loving people Jesus does not mean the entire Bible including the New Testament

Jesus means the Old Testament hangs on loving God and loving our neighbor

If we love our neighbor as ourself then we love our neighbor equal to ourself

James 2:8 If you really fulfill the royal law stated in Scripture, “Love your neighbor as yourself,” you are doing well.

Loving our neighbor as ourself is the royal law in Scripture

Galatians 5:14 The entire law is fulfilled in a single decree: “Love your neighbor as yourself.

If someone loves their neighbor as themselves, they fulfill the entire law

Loving your neighbor as yourself is when you love someone else as your equal

Mark 10:42 So Jesus called them together and said, “You know that those regarded as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their superiors exercise authority over them.     
Mark 10:43 But it shall not be this way among you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant,
Mark 10:44 and whoever wants to be first must be the slave of all.
Mark 10:45 For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many.” 

In the nations, out in the world, people who are great command other people

In the nations, out in the world, people who are great are masters over other people

But this is not true for Christians

If a Christian wants to be great, they should not command and force others

Instead, if a Christian wants to be great, they should allow others to command them if it is not sin

If a Christian wants to be great, they should not be a forceful master over other people

Instead, if a Christian wants to be great, they should allow all other Christians to be their master

If a Christian wants to be great, they should be a servant to everyone else

Jesus did not come so that people would serve Jesus while Jesus was on earth

Instead, Jesus came to so that Jesus would serve everyone

Therefore, Jesus is Servant of all

John 13:34 A new commandment I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you also must love one another.      
John 13:35 By this everyone will know that you are My disciples, if you love one another.”

The way Jesus loved, we ought to love as well

Our love for each other is how everyone will know that we are disciples of Jesus

If we want to love like Jesus, we must be a servant to everyone else

1 Corinthians 9:19 Though I am free of obligation to anyone, I make myself a slave to everyone, to win as many as possible.

Paul was not an earthly slave

Paul did not have an earthly master

Paul was free on earth

However, Paul became a servant to everyone

Paul loved others like Jesus loved others

This was so Paul could win people to God to become saved

1 Corinthians 9:20 To the Jews I became like a Jew, to win the Jews. To those under the law I became like one under the law (though I myself am not under the law), to win those under the law.
1 Corinthians 9:21 To those without the law I became like one without the law (though I am not outside the law of God but am under the law of Christ), to win those without the law.
1 Corinthians 9:22 To the weak I became weak, to win the weak. I have become all things to all people so that by all possible means I might save some.

When Paul talked to Jews, Paul lived his life like a Jew

When Paul talked to those who obeyed the law of Moses, Paul lived as if he obeyed the law of Moses

However Paul was not under the law of Moses

This was to save people who obeyed the law of Moses

When Paul talked to those who did not have the law of God, Paul lived like someone who did not have the law of God

However Paul was not outside the law of God

Paul was under the law of Christ

This was to save people who did not have the law of God

When Paul talked to weak people, Paul lived as though Paul was weak

Paul because everything to everyone

Paul adapted to the preferences of people to save them

Paul did not sin against God to become everything to everyone

This is one way Paul served everyone

Shepherds should serve the sheep they want to God to save

Philippians 2:3 Do nothing out of selfish ambition or empty pride, but in humility consider others more important than yourselves.

We should not live out of selfish ambition

We should not live out of pride

Instead we should live out of humility

If we are humble, then we will consider others more important than ourselves

If we consider others more important than ourselves, then it will be easy for us to serve them

If we love someone else esteeming them greater than ourselves, then we are not loving them as our equal

If we were loving someone as our equal, we would love them equally important to ourselves

When we love someone as more important than ourselves then we are going above and beyond what loving your neighbor as yourself means

Matthew 5:17 Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them.
Matthew 5:18 For I tell you truly, until heaven and earth pass away, not a single jot, not a stroke of a pen, will disappear from the Law until everything is accomplished.
Matthew 5:19 So then, whoever breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do likewise will be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but whoever practices and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:20 For I tell you that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

Remember "Law" and "Prophets" refers to the Old Testament

So, when Jesus says Jesus is not abolishing the the Law or the Prophets, Jesus means that Jesus is not abolishing the Old Testament Scriptures

Rather, Jesus is fulfilling the Old Testament Scriptures

And our righteousness must exceed the scribes and Pharisees to enter the kingdom of heaven

Jesus does not command us to be under the law of Moses

Remember Paul said that Paul is not under the law of Moses

We are not under the law of Moses, either

Rather, Jesus gave us the law of Christ

We don't merely love our neighbor equal to ourselves

We consider our neighbor greater than ourselves

Esteeming others greater than ourselves is how we become a servant of all

And Jesus wants us to serve others

Jesus wants our righteousness to be greater than those who teach and obey the law of Moses

Jesus wants our righteousness to be greater than just loving our neighbor as ourself

Jesus wants us to esteem our neighbor greater than ourselves