Proverbs 1:1-6 These are the proverbs of Solomon son of David, king of Israel, for gaining wisdom and discipline, for comprehending words of insight, and for receiving instruction in wise living and in righteousness, justice, and equity. To impart prudence to the simple and knowledge and discretion to the young, let the wise listen and gain instruction, and the discerning acquire wise counsel by understanding the proverbs and parables, the sayings and riddles of the wise.

"let the wise listen and gain instruction"

To be wise, we must listen

To be discerning, we must understand proverbs and parables

To be discerning, we must understand the sayings and riddles of the wise

Proverbs 23:19 Listen, my son, and be wise, and guide your heart on the right course.

To be wise, we must listen

Proverbs 8:33 Listen to instruction and be wise; do not ignore it.

To be wise, we must listen to instruction

To be wise, we must not ignore instruction

Proverbs 19:20 Listen to counsel and accept discipline, that you may be wise the rest of your days.

To be wise, we must listen to counsel

Proverbs 18:13 He who answers a matter before he hears it this is folly and disgrace to him.

We should listen before speaking

James 1:19-20 My beloved brothers, understand this: Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to anger, for man’s anger does not bring about the righteousness that God desires. 

We should be quick to listen

We should be slow to speak

Proverbs 15:31 He who listens to life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise.'

To dwell among the wise, we must listen to life-giving reproof

We must be willing to listen to criticism

Proverbs 9:8 Do not rebuke a mocker, or he will hate you; rebuke a wise man, and he will love you.

If we hate those who rebuke us, then we are mockers

To be wise, we need to love those who rebuke us

We must be willing to listen to rebuke

Proverbs 27:5 Better an open rebuke than love that is concealed.

Proverbs 28:23 He who rebukes a man will later find more favor than one who flatters with his tongue.

Sometimes it is good to rebuke others

If we have sinned, then it is good for others to rebuke us for our sin

Matthew 18:15 If your brother sins against you, go and confront him privately. If he listens to you, you have won your brother over.

Jesus commands that if our brother sins, we should tell our brother his sin

Jesus commands that if we sin, that our brother tell us of our sin

We need to be willing to listen if someone accuses us of sin

We should not keep all people from criticizing us

John 9:39-41 Then Jesus declared, “For judgment I have come into this world, so that the blind may see and those who see may become blind.” Some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard this, and they asked Him, “Are we blind too?” “If you were blind,” Jesus replied, “you would not be guilty of sin. But since you claim you can see, your guilt remains.”

Jesus said the Pharisees sinned

Jesus told the Pharisees that they claimed to see

When the Pharisees asked "Are we blind too?" they did not believe they were blind

They meant "You cannot mean that we are blind, because we know we are not blind"

If someone has a hard heart, then they do not even know they are guilty of sin

Proverbs 20:9 Who can say, “I have kept my heart pure; I am cleansed from my sin”?

Therefore do not claim for yourself that you have made your heart pure

Jeremiah 17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things and beyond cure. Who can understand it?

The human heart can be very deceitful

Therefore, if someone accuses you of sin, consider that your heart could be deceived in some way

Therefore, if someone accuses you of sin, consider that you could be blind to your sin

Matthew 26:34-35 “Truly I tell you,” Jesus declared, “this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.” Peter replied, “Even if I have to die with You, I will never deny You.” And all the other disciples said the same thing.

Matthew 26:73-75 After a little while, those standing nearby came up to Peter. “Surely you are one of them,” they said, “for your accent gives you away.” At that he began to curse and swear to them, “I do not know the man!” And immediately a rooster crowed. Then Peter remembered the word that Jesus had spoken: “Before the rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.” And he went outside and wept bitterly.

Jesus told Peter that Peter would deny Jesus

Peter told himself and Jesus that Peter would not deny Jesus

Jesus knew what Peter would do

Peter did not know himself

Peter did not know his own heart

We should not be like Peter and think more highly of ourselves than we should

We should not be prideful

Therefore, if someone accuses us of sin, even if we disagree, we should try to understand what they mean

1 Timothy 3:2-3 An overseer, then, must be above reproach, the husband of but one wife, temperate, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not dependent on wine, not violent but gentle, peaceable, and free of the love of money.

Titus 1:7 As God’s steward, an overseer must be above reproach not self-absorbed, not quick-tempered, not given to drunkenness, not violent, not greedy for money.

Titus 2:7-8 In everything, show yourself to be an example by doing good works. In your teaching show integrity, dignity, and wholesome speech that is above reproach, so that anyone who opposes us will be ashamed to have nothing bad to say about us.

Our teaching and our words and our speech should be so good that it is above reproach

No one should be able to say something bad about our actions or our teaching

If we are sinning, God will reveal to us how to repent of our sin including sending people to tell us our sin

Galatians 2:11 When Cephas came to Antioch, however, I opposed him to his face, because he stood to be condemned.

For example God sent Paul to rebuke Peter

But if are sinning and we do not let people criticize us, then we will continue in our sin

To repent of our sin, we must be willing to listen to people, the Bible and the Holy Spirit about what we need to repent of

We must be quick to listen to criticism