1 Corinthians 14:1 Earnestly pursue love and eagerly desire spiritual gifts, especially the gift of prophecy.

We should desire spiritual gifts

We should especially desire the gift to prophesy

1 Corinthians 14:3 But he who prophesies speaks to men for their edification, encouragement, and comfort.

If we prophecy, then we edify other people

If we prophecy, then we encourage other people

If we prophecy, then we comfort other people

1 Corinthians 14:4 The one who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but the one who prophesies edifies the church.

If we prophecy, then we edify the church

1 Corinthians 14:7 Even in the case of lifeless instruments, such as the flute or harp, how will anyone recognize the tune they are playing unless the notes are distinct?
1 Corinthians 14:8 Again, if the trumpet sounds a muffled call, who will prepare for battle?

In music, if people do not recognize the sounds, the song will not be recognized

In the military, if people do not recognize the sounds, the soldiers will not know what to do

1 Corinthians 14:9 So it is with you. Unless you speak intelligible words with your tongue, how will anyone know what you are saying? You will just be speaking into the air.

In speaking, if people do not understand the words we speak, then others will not understand what we say

We must speak words clearly

We must speak and write words that people understand 

1 Corinthians 14:11 If, then, I do not know the meaning of someone’s language, I am a foreigner to the speaker, and he is a foreigner to me.

If someone does not understand the words we say then it is like we speak different languages

1 Corinthians 14:12 It is the same with you. Since you are eager to have spiritual gifts, strive to excel in gifts that build up the church.

We should desire spiritual gifts so that the church is built up

The goal is that the church is built up

We seek spiritual gifts for the purpose of building up the church

1 Corinthians 14:15 What then shall I do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will also pray with my mind. I will sing with my spirit, but I will also sing with my mind.

We should pray with our mind also, not just with our spirit

We should sing with our mind also, not just with our spirit

1 Corinthians 14:16 Otherwise, if you speak a blessing in spirit, how can someone who is uninstructed say “Amen” to your thanksgiving, since he does not know what you are saying?
1 Corinthians 14:17 You may be giving thanks well enough, but the other one is not edified.

If we say something, but the other person does not understand, then they are edified

We want the other person to be edified

Therefore they need to understand what we say

Our words need to be easy to understand

1 Corinthians 14:19 But in the church, I would rather speak five coherent words to instruct others than ten thousand words in a tongue.

In the church, it is better to speak five words of instruction that people understand than ten thousand words that people do not understand with their mind

