pray always

give account for every idle word and teaching

teach words that are understood

humility to lead

servant like Jesus

count others better

proverbs listening to counsel

quick to listen slow to speak

---

Heavenly Father, give me the words to say; open up our eyes and ears to Scripture and truth; prepare the hearts of everyone to receive the word of God and may Your Holy Spirit teach us and guide us into all truth amen

Hebrews 1:1 On many past occasions and in many different ways, God spoke to our fathers through the prophets. But in these last days He has spoken to us by His Son, whom He appointed heir of all things, and through whom He made the universe.

Before Jesus, in the days of the Old Testament, God spoke through prophets

Therefore the Old Testament was written by prophets

Romans 8:9 You, however, are controlled not by the flesh, but by the Spirit, if the Spirit of God lives in you. And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ.

The Spirit of Christ is the Spirit of God

1 Peter 1:10-11 Concerning this salvation, the prophets who foretold the grace to come to you searched and investigated carefully, trying to determine the time and setting to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing when He predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow.

The prophets who wrote the Old Testament were speaking by the Spirit of Christ

Therefore the Old Testament comes from the Spirit of God

Genesis 1:2 Now the earth was formless and void, and darkness was over the surface of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the surface of the waters.

The Hebrew word for "Spirit" is "וְר֣וּחַ" (wə·rū·aḥ) or "רוּחַ" (ruach) which means breath, wind or spirit

Matthew 3:16 As soon as Jesus was baptized, He went up out of the water. Suddenly the heavens were opened, and He saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and resting on Him.

The Greek word for "Spirit" is "πνεῦμα" (pneuma) which also means wind, breath or spirit

Therefore the Spirit of God refers to the breath of God 

2 Timothy 3:16 All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for instruction, for conviction, for correction, and for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be complete, fully equipped for every good work.

All Scripture is from the breath of God

Therefore all Scripture is from the Spirit of God

1 Corinthians 2:14 The natural man does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually discerned.

The things that come from the Spirit of God are spiritually discerned

Therefore the Old and New Testaments are spiritually discerned

Therefore we need the Holy Spirit to teach us what Scripture means

1 Thessalonians 5:17 Pray without ceasing.

We should always pray

Therefore we should pray before we preach the word of God

And before we preach we should ask for the help of God to understand Scripture, that the Holy Spirit would teach us Scripture