The begiinning of Psalm 18 says: For the director of music. Of David the servant of the Lord. He sang to the Lord the words of this song when the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. He said:

Psalms 18:20 The LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness; He has repaid me according to the cleanness of my hands.

In Psalms 18, David says that they are rewarded for their righteousness

Romans 3:10 As it is written: “There is no one righteous, not even one.

In Romans, Paul says no one is righteous

If no one is righteous, how can someone be rewarded according to their righteousness?

---

2 Corinthians 5:20-21 Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were making His appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ: Be reconciled to God. God made Him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that in Him we might become the righteousness of God.

Jesus Christ knew no sin 

1 Peter 2:21-22 For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, that you should follow in His footsteps: “He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in His mouth.”

Jesus Christ committed no sin

No deceit was found in the mouth of Jesus Christ

Jesus Christ was, is and always will be perfect and without sin

Galatians 3:22 But the Scripture pronounces all things confined by sin, so that by faith in Jesus Christ the promise might be given to those who believe.

Scripture has confined everyone else to sin

Genesis 6:9 This is the account of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation; Noah walked with God.

The Bible calls Noah "righteous"

The Bible calls Noah "blameless"

2 Peter 2:7 and if He rescued Lot, a righteous man distressed by the depraved conduct of the lawless

The Bible calls Lot "righteous"

The Bible calls some people "righteous"

Ezekiel 14:20 then as surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, they could not deliver their own sons or daughters. Their righteousness could deliver only themselves.

Job is a real person along with Noah and Daniel

Job 1:1 There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. And this man was blameless and upright, fearing God and shunning evil.

The Bible calls Job "blameless"

The Bible calls some people "blameless" as well

Romans 5:7 Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man, though for a good man someone might possibly dare to die.

Only a few people would be willing to die for a righteous person

However, some people would be willing to die for a good person

Therefore, some people are "righteous" and "blameless" 

And some people are even "good"

However, remember Scripture has confined all to sin

Therefore all of these "righteous," "blameless" and "good" people have sinned

Only Jesus is without sin

1 John 1:10 If we say we have not sinned, we make Him out to be a liar, and His word is not in us.

And if we say we have never sinned we make God to be a liar

Romans 3:10 As it is written: “There is no one righteous, not even one.

Therefore when it says there is no one who is righteous that means no one is perfectly righteous without any sin whatsoever their entire life

When it says Lot was "righteous" then that means Lot had sinned before

1 Peter 3:18 For Christ also suffered for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. He was put to death in the body but made alive in the Spirit,

Peter says the "righteous" died for the "unrighteous"

In that context we're all unrighteous

Therefore the word "righteous" has multiple meanings depending on what's being emphasized

"Righteous" can mean they have much righteousness like Lot and Noah

Here, their goodness is being emphasized

"Righteous" can mean they are perfect like Jesus, the Righteous, dying for the unrighteous or that no one is righteous

Here, us falling short of perfect righteousness or the absolute perfect righteousness of Jesus is being emphasized 

Romans 9:10-13 Not only that, but Rebecca’s children were conceived by one man, our father Isaac. Yet before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad, in order that God’s plan of election might stand, not by works but by Him who calls, she was told, “The older will serve the younger.” So it is written: “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.”

In the womb there was a time where neither Jacob nor Esau had done anything good or evil, yet

Therefore, some people are too young to sin

Or, maybe their mind is incapable of sinning because they have a childlike mind

Jeremiah 32:18-19 You show loving devotion to thousands but lay the iniquity of the fathers into the laps of their children after them, O great and mighty God whose name is the LORD of Hosts, the One great in counsel and mighty in deed, whose eyes are on all the ways of the sons of men, to reward each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds.

Job 34:10-12 Therefore listen to me, O men of understanding. Far be it from God to do wrong, and from the Almighty to act unjustly. For according to a man’s deeds He repays him; according to a man’s ways He brings consequences. Indeed, it is true that God does not act wickedly, and the Almighty does not pervert justice.

Matthew 16:27 For the Son of Man will come in His Father’s glory with His angels, and then He will repay each one according to what he has done.

Proverbs 24:12 If you say, “Behold, we did not know about this,” does not He who weighs hearts consider it? Does not the One who guards your life know? Will He not repay a man according to his deeds?

Psalms 62:11-12 God has spoken once; I have heard this twice: that power belongs to God, and loving devotion to You, O Lord. For You will repay each man according to his deeds.

Romans 2:6-11 God “will repay each one according to his deeds.” To those who by perseverance in doing good seek glory, honor, and immortality, He will give eternal life. But for those who are self-seeking and who reject the truth and follow wickedness, there will be wrath and anger. There will be trouble and distress for every human being who does evil, first for the Jew, then for the Greek; but glory, honor, and peace for everyone who does good, first for the Jew, then for the Greek. For God does not show favoritism.

God will repay us according to our works

Matthew 10:42 And if anyone gives even a cup of cold water to one of these little ones because he is My disciple, truly I tell you, he will never lose his reward.”

Mark 9:41 Indeed, if anyone gives you even a cup of water because you bear the name of Christ, truly I tell you, he will never lose his reward.

2 Corinthians 5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive his due for the things done in the body, whether good or bad.

Ephesians 6:8 because you know that the Lord will reward each one for whatever good he does, whether he is slave or free.

If we are in Christ, then we will be rewarded for the good we do

We will be rewarded for any righteousness we have

Galatians 5:22-23 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law.

And our good works are called the "fruit of the Spirit"

Any fruit of the Spirit is good

All the fruit of the Spirit is perfect

Galatians 5:19-21 The acts of the flesh are obvious: sexual immorality, impurity, and debauchery; idolatry and sorcery; hatred, discord, jealousy, and rage; rivalries, divisions, factions, and envy; drunkenness, orgies, and the like. I warn you, as I did before, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.

There are also the acts or works of the flesh

Galatians 5:16-17 So I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the flesh craves what is contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit what is contrary to the flesh. They are opposed to each other, so that you do not do what you want.

Our flesh and the Holy Spirit are contrary to each other

Our flesh and the Holy Spirit are opposed to each other

Our flesh and the Holy Spirit fight against each other

Our flesh and the Holy Spirit war against each other

Our flesh does evil

The fruit of the Holy Spirit is good 

Romans 7:15-25 I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do, I do not do. But what I hate, I do. And if I do what I do not want to do, I admit that the law is good. In that case, it is no longer I who do it, but it is sin living in me that does it. I know that nothing good lives in me, that is, in my flesh; for I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out.  For I do not do the good I want to do. Instead, I keep on doing the evil I do not want to do. And if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but it is sin living in me that does it. So this is the principle I have discovered: When I want to do good, evil is right there with me. For in my inner being I delight in God’s law. But I see another law at work in my body, warring against the law of my mind and holding me captive to the law of sin that dwells within me. What a wretched man I am! Who will rescue me from this body of death? Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, with my mind I serve the law of God, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.

Paul did good because Paul delighted in the law of God in the inner being of Paul

Paul also did sin

There have been people who produced the fruit of the Spirit and sin as well

And those are acts or works of their flesh

But God gives us the fruit of the Spirit

And the fruit of the Spirit is truly good

Matthew 7:17 Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit.

Good trees bear good fruit

We do true good if we are a good tree