Romans 1:1 Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, and set apart for the gospel of God
Romans 1:2 the gospel He promised beforehand through His prophets in the Holy Scriptures,
Romans 1:3 regarding His Son, who was a descendant of David according to the flesh,
Romans 1:4 and who through the Spirit of holiness was declared with power to be the Son of God by His resurrection from the dead: Jesus Christ our Lord.

Paul wrote the book of Romans

Paul serves Jesus

Paul is an apostle

Paul called himself a servant before Paul called himself an apostle

It is more important to be a servant of God than an apostle

Before Jesus was on earth, during the time of the Old Testament God spoke to us through prophets

Before Jesus was on earth, God promised the gospel through the Old Testament prophets

Galatians 3:8 The Scripture foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, and foretold the gospel to Abraham: “All nations will be blessed through you.”

God told Abraham that all nations would be blessed through Abraham

God told this gospel blessing to Abraham

Paul says in Romans that the Old Testament prophets promised the gospel

The gospel is about the Son of God

Acts 13:22 After removing Saul, He raised up David as their king and testified about him: ‘I have found David son of Jesse a man after My own heart; he will carry out My will in its entirety.’

David was a king whose heart was after the heart of God

The flesh of Jesus was a descendant of David

Isaiah 6:2 Above Him stood seraphim, each having six wings: With two wings they covered their faces, with two they covered their feet, and with two they were flying.
Isaiah 6:3 And they were calling out to one another: “Holy, holy, holy is the LORD of Hosts; all the earth is full of His glory.”

God is Holy, Holy, Holy

The Spirit of God is a Spirit of holiness

Hebrews 2:2 For if the message spoken by angels was binding, and every transgression and disobedience received its just punishment,
Hebrews 2:3 how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? This salvation was first announced by the Lord, was confirmed to us by those who heard Him,
Hebrews 2:4 and was affirmed by God through signs, wonders, various miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to His will.

Jesus announced our salvation

People heard Jesus preach the gospel

When these people preached the gospel to others, God declared their words were true through miracles

Sometimes God confirms the truth of what someone says because of a miracle

John 10:34 Jesus replied, “Is it not written in your Law: ‘I have said you are gods’ ?
John 10:35 If he called them gods to whom the word of God came and the Scripture cannot be broken
John 10:36 then what about the One whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world? How then can you accuse Me of blasphemy for stating that I am the Son of God?

Jesus said that Jesus was the Son of God

John 13:12 When Jesus had washed their feet and put on His outer garments, He reclined with them again and asked, “Do you know what I have done for you?
John 13:13 You call Me Teacher and Lord, and rightly so, because I am.
John 13:14 So if I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also should wash one another’s feet.

Jesus said that Jesus is Lord of his disciples

When God raised Jesus to life that was a miracle

This miracle that Jesus rose to life proved that God accepted all the words of Jesus as truth

Therefore the resurrection of Jesus proved that when Jesus said Jesus was the Son of God that Jesus was the Son of God

The resurrection of Jesus proved that when Jesus said Jesus is Lord that Jesus is Lord

Romans 1:5 Through Him and on behalf of His name, we received grace and apostleship to call all those among the Gentiles to the obedience that comes from faith.

If we have faith in the word of God, then we will also obey the word of God

James 2:26 As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead.

Faith without works without action is a dead faith

If we have faith, then we will have works

Matthew 7:21 Not everyone who says to Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of My Father in heaven.

It is not enough to say just with our words that Jesus is Lord

We must confess Jesus is Lord and do the will of the Father of Jesus in heaven

The word Gentiles means "anyone who is not a Jew"

God calls people who are Gentiles to obedience and this obedience is because God has given them faith

The word apostle means "sent"

Jesus sent the apostles to the Gentiles, so the Gentiles would have faith in Jesus and obey Jesus

1 Peter 5:5 Young men, in the same way, submit yourselves to your elders. And all of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because, “God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”

God opposes people who are proud

God gives grace to people who are humble

If we are humble, then God will give us the grace of God

The grace of God helps us strengthens us empowers us

The grace of God empowered the apostles to bring the gospel to the Gentiles so the Gentiles would have faith and obey

The apostles were sent to Gentiles not on their own, but only through Jesus

The apostles were sent to Gentiles on behalf of the name of Jesus

Romans 1:6 And you also are among those who are called to belong to Jesus Christ.

There were people in Rome

Some of the people in Rome were Jews

Some of the people in Rome were not Jews

The people were in Rome were called to belong to Jesus

Romans 1:7 To all in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints: Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

Paul wrote Romans to people who are loved by God

The word "saint" means someone who is holy or sacred

Paul wrote Romans to people who are called by God to be saints

Romans 1:8 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is being proclaimed all over the world.

The Christians in Rome had faith

The faith of Christians in Rome was proclaimed all over the world

Many people heard about the faith of the Christians in Rome

Because of this Paul thanked God

Romans 1:9 God, whom I serve with my spirit in preaching the gospel of His Son, is my witness how constantly I remember you
Romans 1:10 in my prayers at all times, asking that now at last by God’s will I may succeed in coming to you.

Paul serves God

Paul serves God with the spirit of Paul

Paul serves God by preaching the gospel of the Son of God






Romans 1:11 For I long to see you so that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you,
Romans 1:12 that is, that you and I may be mutually encouraged by each other’s faith.
Romans 1:13 I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, how often I planned to come to you (but have been prevented from visiting until now), in order that I might have a harvest among you, just as I have had among the other Gentiles.       
Romans 1:14 I am obligated both to Greeks and non-Greeks, both to the wise and the foolish.     
Romans 1:15 That is why I am so eager to preach the gospel also to you who are in Rome.
Romans 1:16 I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, first to the Jew, then to the Greek.
Romans 1:17 For the gospel reveals the righteousness of God that comes by faith from start to finish, just as it is written: “The righteous will live by faith.”
Romans 1:18 The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness.
Romans 1:19 For what may be known about God is plain to them, because God has made it plain to them.
Romans 1:20 For since the creation of the world God’s invisible qualities, His eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly seen, being understood from His workmanship, so that men are 
without excuse.
Romans 1:21 For although they knew God, they neither glorified Him as God nor gave thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking and darkened in their foolish hearts.
Romans 1:22 Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools,
Romans 1:23 and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images of mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles.
Romans 1:24 Therefore God gave them over in the desires of their hearts to impurity for the dishonoring of their bodies with one another.       
Romans 1:25 They exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is forever worthy of praise! Amen.
Romans 1:26 For this reason God gave them over to dishonorable passions. Even their women exchanged natural relations for unnatural ones.       
Romans 1:27 Likewise, the men abandoned natural relations with women and burned with lust for one another. Men committed indecent acts with other men, and received in themselves the due penalty for their error.
Romans 1:28 Furthermore, since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, He gave them up to a depraved mind, to do what ought not to be done.    
Romans 1:29 They have become filled with every kind of wickedness, evil, greed, and depravity. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, and malice. They are gossips,
Romans 1:30 slanderers, God-haters, insolent, arrogant, and boastful. They invent new forms of evil; they disobey their parents.
Romans 1:31 They are senseless, faithless, heartless, merciless.
Romans 1:32 Although they know God’s righteous decree that those who do such things are worthy of death, they not only continue to do these things, but also approve of those who practice them.