james 1:2-4
Consider it pure joy, my brothers, when you encounter trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Allow perseverance to finish its work, so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything.

we go through trials and difficulties in life

GOD uses our trials and difficulties in life to test our faith

when our faith is tested , then GOD gives us perseverance

when GOD gives us perseverance then GOD makes us perfect and complete

when we are perfect and complete we have all the spiritual gifts that we need

hebrews 12:2-12
Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider Him who endured such hostility from sinners, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And you have forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons: “My son, do not take lightly the discipline of the Lord, and do not lose heart when He rebukes you. For the Lord disciplines the one He loves, and He chastises every son He receives.” Endure suffering as discipline; God is treating you as sons. For what son is not disciplined by his father? If you do not experience discipline like everyone else, then you are illegitimate children and not true sons. Furthermore, we have all had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Should we not much more submit to the Father of our spirits and live? Our fathers disciplined us for a short time as they thought best, but God disciplines us for our good, so that we may share in His holiness. No discipline seems enjoyable at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it yields a harvest of righteousness and peacec to those who have been trained by it. Therefore strengthen your limp hands and weak knees. Make straight paths for your feet, so that the lame may not be disabled, but rather healed.

our eyes should be fixed on JESUS

we should remember JESUS

we should meditate on JESUS

JESUS is the author of our faith

JESUS is the source and cause of our faith

JESUS is the perfector of our faith

JESUS is the finisher and completion of our faith

JESUS had to suffer on a cross for our sins

JESUS endured the cross because of the joy that JESUS knew would come later

after JESUS endured the cross , JESUS rose to life and ascended into heaven

GOD has a throne in heaven

Sitting at the right hand is a place of honor

when JESUS ascended into heaven , JESUS sat down at the right hand of the throne of GOD

many people made JESUS suffer

when we suffer , we should remember how JESUS suffered

when we remember that JESUS suffered a lot then we will be encouraged about our own suffering

GOD considers some people worthy to have their blood shed because of JESUS

we struggle against sin

many people have not yet had their blood shed because they were obeying GOD

if GOD loves us , then GOD will discipline us

if we are children of GOD , then GOD will chastise us

we all suffer

when we suffer in our lives , then GOD is disciplining us

when we suffer , that means that we are children of GOD

on earth fathers discipline their children

if GOD were to not discipline someone , then they would not be true children of GOD

we respect our fathers on earth when they disciplined us when we were children

how much more should we respect our HEAVENLY FATHER when HE disciplines us

when GOD disciplines us , it leads to eternal life