1 Corthinians 1:1 says:

1 Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes

In the Bible, Paul and Sosthenes are the authors of 1 Corinthians

1 Corithinians has many verses about marriage including verses specifically about women

For example:

1 Corinthians 7:13
If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him.

Paul says that Paul was single when he asks the following question:

1 Corinthians 9:5
Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?

The apostle Paul writes about marriage many times, not just in 1 Corinthians

Even though Paul was single, Paul still taught about marriage

And even though Paul was a man, Paul still taught about women

Therefore God can use a man to teach about women or marriage



In the Bible the book of Proverbs has 31 chapters

In the last chapter, there are many verses about women specifically

For example verse 30 of chapter 31 of Proverbs says:

Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain,
    but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.

In the whole Bible there are many verses about women specifically

And yet the Bible also says this:

Galatians 3:28
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.

In Christ, there are no races like Jew or Greek

In Christ, there are no social statuses, like slave or free

In Christ, there is not male and female

The is because we are all one in Christ

And yet the Bible addresses servants and masters individually

Therefore these differences exist today

However what makes us united is greater than what makes us different

We are all united because we are one in Christ

Therefore, for the Christian being a Christian is more fundamental than being a man or a woman

Our primary identity is that we belong to Christ

Our primary identity is not that we are a man or a woman, or our race or our social status

Therefore a message to Christian women is primarily to a Christian, and gender is secondary



So, what does the Bible have to say to Christians?

Matthew 4:4
But he answered, “It is written, “‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.’”

We humans live by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God

What words proceed out of the mouth of God?

2 Timothy 3:16
All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,

If something is Scripture, then it is breathed out of the mouth of God

If it is breathed out of the mouth of God, then it proceeds out of the mouth of God

Therefore all Scripture proceeds out of the mouth of God

Therefore when Jesus says humans live by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God, humans live by all Scripture

Therefore, every word in the Bible is written for Christians


But where do we begin?

What Scripture do we start with, first?

Galatians 1
1 Paul, an apostle—not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead—

Paul wrote Galatians

Galatians 1
11 For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel. 12 For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. 

Paul received the gospel through a revelation from Jesus

1 Corinthians 15:3-4
3 For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, 4 that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,

Christ died 

Christ died for our sins

Then Christ was buried

Then Christ rose to life

The death, burial and resurrection of Jesus is a revelation from Jesus to Paul

Paul delivered this revelation to the Corinthians

Paul delivered this relevation as of first importance

This revelation is of first importance

The death, burial and resurrection of Jesus is of first importance

Therefore we begin with the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus

A resurrection can only happen if there is first a death

If someone were to briefly die and be resurrected, many people would not think the person died

Since their death would not be proven, their resurrection would not be proven, either

But if someone were to die, and be buried for at least a few days, then clearly they are dead

And then, when they resurrect, the resurrection is proven because their death is also proven

The death and burial are needed to prove Jesus rose to life



Why is it important that Jesus rose to life?

11 Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed. 

Paul and the other apostles preached that Jesus rose to life

12 Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? 

When Paul wrote 1 Corithians there were people who said they were believers in God, but also taught that there was no resurrection of the dead

1 Kings 17:17–24
17 After this the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill. And his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him. 

There was a woman

The woman had a son

The son became sick

And his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him. 

The son was so sick, the son could not breathe

Because the son could not breathe, the son died

18 And she said to Elijah, “What have you against me, O man of God? You have come to me to bring my sin to remembrance and to cause the death of my son!” 19 And he said to her, “Give me your son.” And he took him from her arms and carried him up into the upper chamber where he lodged, and laid him on his own bed. 20 And he cried to the Lord, “O Lord my God, have you brought calamity even upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by killing her son?” 21 Then he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to the Lord, “O Lord my God, let this child's life come into him again.” 

Then Elijah asked God to raise the boy to life

22 And the Lord listened to the voice of Elijah. And the life of the child came into him again, and he revived. 23 And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper chamber into the house and delivered him to his mother. And Elijah said, “See, your son lives.” 24 And the woman said to Elijah, “Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth.”

Then the boy was raised to life

Elijah performed a miracle of resurrection

The Old Testament teaches that there is a resurrection

Anyone who believed the Scripture that was before Jesus would believe in resurrections

When Jesus raised from the dead, this was not the first time that God had raised someone from the dead

There was no reason for people to teach that God did not raise the dead

However, Paul says people were teaching that there is no resurrection

Paul asks: if the apostles proclaim that Jesus rose from the dead, how can people say there is no resurrection of the dead?

Paul means that if Jesus rose from the dead, then there must be a resurrection of the dead

13 But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. 

Paul says if no dead person has ever been resurrected, then it would have been impossible for Jesus to have risen from the dead

14 And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain. 

The resurrection of Jesus is of first importance

When the apostles preached, the preached first of all about the resurrection of Jesus

Paul says if Jesus did not raise to life, then all this preaching the Jesus rose to life is pointless

Paul says if Jesus did not raise to life, the entire Christian faith is pointless

In other words, everything that Christianity teaches is pointless if Jesus did not rise from the dead

The resurrection of Jesus is of first importance to Christianity

15 We are even found to be misrepresenting God, because we testified about God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised. 

Paul preached that God was the One who raised Jesus to life

Paul says that if God did not raise Jesus from the dead, then Paul is lying about what God has done

16 For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. 

Paul says if no one who has died has been raised, then Jesus died and never rose to life 

17 And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. 

Paul says if Jesus was not raised from the dead, then our faith has no value

If Jesus did not rise from the dead, then we would still be in our sins, unable to repent and destined to die one day for our sins

18 Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. 

Before Paul wrote 1 Corithians, there were Christians who had already died

If Jesus did not rise from the dead, then all those Christians who have died already have perished and are destined for eternal hell

19 If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied.

Our hope is that we will resurrect with Jesus one day

If we will not resurrect one day, then our hope would be a lie

We would live our lives deceived: believing that God would raise us when He won'take

Paul says this would make us Christians who believe in a false resurrection the people who shoud receive the most pity of all people

20 But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. 

However our faith is not useless

Our hope is not false

There is a resurrection

And Jesus was raised from the dead

Genesis 3
9 But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, “Where are you?” 10 And he said, “I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.” 11 He said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?” 12 The man said, “The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate.” 13 Then the Lord God said to the woman, “What is this that you have done?” The woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”

There was a husband named Adam and his wife named Eve

God told them to not eat of a tree

A serpent deceived the woman

Then the man and the woman disobeyed God

14 The Lord God said to the serpent,
“Because you have done this,
    cursed are you above all livestock
    and above all beasts of the field;
on your belly you shall go,
    and dust you shall eat
    all the days of your life.
15 I will put enmity between you and the woman,
    and between your offspring and her offspring;
he shall bruise your head,
    and you shall bruise his heel.”

When God punished the snake, also God promised that the woman would have an offspring

This offspring shall bruise the head of the snake

Jesus is this Offspring who defeats the snake

Genesis 19
24 Then the Lord rained on Sodom and Gomorrah sulfur and fire from the Lord out of heaven. 25 And he overthrew those cities, and all the valley, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground. 26 But Lot's wife, behind him, looked back, and she became a pillar of salt. 27 And Abraham went early in the morning to the place where he had stood before the Lord. 28 And he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah and toward all the land of the valley, and he looked and, behold, the smoke of the land went up like the smoke of a furnace. 29 So it was that, when God destroyed the cities of the valley, God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities in which Lot had lived.

God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah with fire

Romans 9:29
And as Isaiah predicted, “If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah.”

If God had not left us Jesus the Offspring, then all humans would have been destroyed like Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed

Without Jesus, we would all be destroyed and would not resurrect to eternal life

Without Jesus, there is no resurrection

Therefore the resurrection of Jesus is the first resurrection among all other resurrections

This is why Paul says Jesus is the firstfruit of those who will resurrect

1 Corinthians 15
21 For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. 

Genesis 19
16 And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, “You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, 17 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.”

God commanded the man to not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil

God said that if man did eat of the tree, then man would die

Then the man and the woman disobeyed God and ate of the tree

That is why Paul says by a man came death

Paul meant that by the man Adam came death

And just as a man gave us death, another Man gives us eternal life

Jesus is the Man who gives us eternal life

1 Corinthians 15
22 For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.

Elijah was the prophet who resurrected a child

2 Kings 2:11
And as they still went on and talked, behold, chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.

Also Elijah has never died

Instead Elijah went up into heaven

Romans 5:12
Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned—

When Adam sinned, then death came ino the world

Also, death spread to all

Besides a small number of people like Elijah, almost every human dies eventually

This is why Paul says in Romans that death spread to all men

Because of sin, we must die

Romans 6:23
For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

The wages of sin is death

Wages are what someone pays you

When there is sin, the person who sins is repaid with death

James 1:15
Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.

When sin is fully grown, sin brings forth death
 
Through the man Adam, almost all humans have had to die

Through the resurrection of Jesus, we too can be resurrected and have eternal life

1 Corinthians 15
23 But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. 

Paul says that Jesus resurrected first and then, when Jesus comes back, others will be resurrected

How can this be when others were resurrected before Jesus like the child that Elijah resurrected?

1 Corinthians 15
47 The first man was from the earth, a man of dust; the second man is from heaven.

The first man, Adam, was from the earth

Genesis 2:7
then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature.

God formed Adam from the dust of the ground of the earth

This is why Paul says Adam was from the earth

This is why Paul says that Adam was a man of dust

Whereas the second man, Jesus, is not from the earth

Jesus is from heaven

48 As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust, and as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. 

As Adam was formed from dust, so too are our bodies like Adam

Our bodies are like bodies formed from dust

Those who are of heaven have a body like Jesus

49 Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven.

Right now we bear the image of the man of dust

Our bodies have the image of the man of dust

When we are resurrected, we will have the image of the man of heaven

When we are resurrected, we will have heavenly bodies

51 Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, 52 in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.

When Jesus returns our bodies will be changed

Therefore resurrected bodies will be different than bodies that are not resurrected

Before Jesus was resurrected, when people were resurrected, they were not given their heavenly bodies

The child that Elijah resurrected was not given a heavenly body, yet

This is why Paul says Christ was resurrected first and then later those who belong to Christ when Christ comes back

We do not receive our resurrected bodies until Jesus comes back

24 Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. 

After Jesus comes back will be the end of this heavens and this earth

Jesus will destroy every rule

Jesus will destroy every authority

Jesus will destroy every power

Luke 24:39
See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.”

After Jesus resurrected, Jesus appeared to some of His disciples

Jesus told them that a spirit does not have flesh and bones

When Jesus resurrected, Jesus was not merely a spirit lacking flesh and bones

Instead Jesus has a physical body with flesh and bones

Since our body will be made in His image, our bodies too will have flesh and bones

We will not be merely spirits in heaven

Ephesians 6
12 For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.

Humans have flesh and bones and blood

Spritual beings do not have flesh and bones and blood

In our lives, we wrestle against these spiritual beings, not physical beings

Ephesians says there are at least four kinds of spiritual beings here

We wrestle against rulers

We wrestle against authorities

We wrestle against costmic powers over this present darkness

We wrestle against spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places

When Paul says that Jesus destroys every rule and every authority and power, Paul is talking about spiritual rules and spiritual authorities and spiritual powers

Paul is talking about spiritual beings like in Ephesians 6

Jesus will destroy every spiritual enemy

Then Jesus will deliver the kingdom to the Father

Matthew 28:18
And Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.

All authority has already been given to Jesus

Jesus is already Lord over everything

If Jesus is already Lord over everything, why do we not see Him, yet?

Why is there still evil if Jesus is already Lord over everything?

6 It has been testified somewhere,

Hebrews 2
“What is man, that you are mindful of him,
    or the son of man, that you care for him?
7 You made him for a little while lower than the angels;
    you have crowned him with glory and honor,
8     putting everything in subjection under his feet.”
Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. 9 But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.

God already put everything in subjection to Jesus

Nothing is outside the control of Jesus

And yet Hebrews tells us that we do not yet see everything in subjection to Jesus

Even though everything is already in subjection to Jesus, we do not see it yet

Therefore Jesus is already Lord now and, after Jesus destroys every spiritual enemy, then Jesus will deliver the kingdom to the Father

25 For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. 

Jesus must reign as King and Lord until all the enemies of Jesus are under his feet

When the enemies are under the feet of Jesus, these enemies will be completely subjected and under his command

26 The last enemy to be destroyed is death. 

The last enemy that will be destroyed is death

27 For “God has put all things in subjection under his feet.” But when it says, “all things are put in subjection,” it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in subjection under him. 

God the Father put all other things in subjection to Jesus

God the Father is not in subjection to Jesus

Everything else is in subjection to Jesus

28 When all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection under him, that God may be all in all.

When everything is subjected to Jesus, then Jesus will also be subject to the Father

Because Jesus is subject to the Father, then God may be all in all

2 Peter 1
3 His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, 4 by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.

Divine refers to God

The power of God grants us all things that have to do with eternal life

The power of God grants us all things that have to do with godliness

We have eternal life and we have godliness through the knowledge of God

God is the one who has called us

John 15:16
You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.

We did not choose Jesus

Instead Jesus chose us

1 John 4:10
In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.

It is not that we have loved God

Instead it is God who loved us

1 John 4:19
We love because he first loved us.

God loves us first

And it is not us who call God, but rather God who calls us

And God chooses us

Isaiah 48:11
For my own sake, for my own sake, I do it, for how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not give to another.

God has glory

God does not give his glory to another

And yet Peter says that God called us to his own glory

If we are called to the glory of God, and God does not give his glory to another, how can this be?

God also calls us to his excellence

Because God has called us to the glory and excellence of God, God has also granted us the promises of God

The promises of God are great and precious

And through the promises of God we are partakers of the divine nature of God

This is how we called to the glory of God: we partake of his divine nature




